English for Specific Purposes (ESP) is an approach to English 
    language teaching in English as a second language (ESL) and English 
    as a foreign language (EFL) environments that is dedicated to 
    teaching learners specifically what they need to learn, to function 
    well in their various areas of specialization. Over time, it would 
    be important to note that different models of language description 
    have helped or contributed to the development process of ESP. The 
    notable description models by language scholars were the 
    traditional or classical model, the Structural Model, the 
    transformational generative grammar model, amongst others.
The classical or traditional model is a model of language 
    description that 1 word took after the methods 
    of describing the classical languages, namely, Latin and Greek. At 
    that time, those scholars saw these classical languages as the 
    ideal and the description of any other language should follow the 
    patterns of the description of these languages. It must be noted 
    however, that these classical languages are case-based languages 
    and that the focus of their description were based on the function 
    of the individual words within the sentence which are used with 
    their appropriate inflections. So, the description of English 
    followed suit. For instance, the description of the sentence below 
    would take the pattern of the identification of the individual 
    functions of the words in the sentence, as put thus:
My brother│killed│the bird1 character.
subject │verb │object.
The significant contribution of this model of description to ESP 
    is in that, ESP has retained most of the terminologies utilized in 
    the description of the language. Terminologies like: ‘subject’, 
    ‘verb’, ‘object’, ‘noun’, ‘verbs’, ‘pronouns’, e.t.c, 
    take their source from the classical description model.
In addition to this, another contribution of this model to ESP 
    is in that, ESP also retained the use of cases 3 
    words in the teaching of grammar, so also the use of 
    inflections to determine concepts like time and tense.
Shortly after the reign of the earlier described model, the 
    scholar Bloomfield came up with his own proposition to challenge 
    the methods of the classical description model, in the 1930’s. He 
    posits that the English language could actually be described in 
    terms of the syntagmatic and paradigmatic relationships which exist 
    within the sentence. So, a change of any of the words within the 
    sentence or a change of its structure could lead to the generation 
    of a different sentence. This argument was based on the belief that 
    (unlike the 1 character the cased-based nature 
    of the classical languages) the English language is a word-order 
    language.
The significant contributions made by this model of description 
    is the act of viewing the language as a structure where the 
    elements within are related
The introduction of the substitution table as a means of 
    teaching the English grammar is another notable contribution made 
    by this description model to ESP. This table made use of the 
    slot-and-filler 1 character method introduced by 
    this model to teach learners how to produce grammatically correct 
    utterances in English.
Another notable contribution of this model to ESP is the 
    introduction of the structural syllabus in the teaching of 
    language. This kind of syllabus presents topic which are to be 
    taught in the order of simple (and more easily learnt) to complex 
    (or less easily learnt) in order to achieve educational 
    progression.
In a nutshell, these contributions made by these models have 
    been invaluable over time, in the teaching of language use in 
    ESP.
English for Specific Purposes (ESP) is not a variety of English 
    but an approach to the teaching of English which is concerned with 
    tailoring the nature of the English taught, according to the needs 
    of the learners. Shortly after the second world war, it became 
    pronounced and was mainly known as EST – English for science and 
    technology. However, over time, English instructors also found the 
    need to tailor the language according to the needs of members of 
    other profession, thus, we have: commercial English, medical 
    English, e.t.c.
Based on this, one can then go on to say that ESP focuses on the 
    teaching of advanced or intermediate learners who need to develop 
    the proficiency in the use of the language in order to meet up with 
    the demands of their profession.
In accordance with this, ESP makes the 
    learners in ESP learn English through the context of their target 
    situation. They are presented with authentic language situations 
    and thus, this gives them the motivation to learn since they see 
    the immediate relevance of English to their need.
Also in ESP, one or two specific skills are taught rather than 
    the four skills. The skills which the learners are trained in are 
    those which would be relevant to the demands of their target 
    situation or area of specialization.
Furthermore, ESP is not preoccupied with the teaching of 
    structures alone or description of language use, rather it is 
    learning-centred. That is, the focus is on getting the appropriate 
    need(s) of the learner(s) and ensuring that it is taught 
    effectively and learnt.
On the other hand, General English is also an approach to 
    English language teaching (ELT) which is concerned with the 
    learning of English generally as a medium of communication. This 
    approach is usually encountered (especially in ESL environments) at 
    the primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education.
In this approach as well, the content of what is to be taught is 
    actually very wide and that is why it spans for a long time. The 
    learners vary based on the level at which they are being taught and 
    there is less motivation, compared to ESP.
This approach incorporates the teaching of the four 
    communication skills – Listening, Speaking, reading and writing, 
    and ensures the proficiency of the learners in these skills.
Also, it is preoccupied with the teaching of the structures of 
    the English language and even the description of the system of the 
    language.
From the above description of both approaches it can be deduced 
    that:
The content of the ESP syllabus is limited to that of General 
    English since it does not teach the four skills while the latter 
    does. The learners in ESP are usually older and advanced learners, 
    while in General English the learners exist in different levels.
ESP is not preoccupied with the description of the nature or 
    structure of the language while General English contains a great 
    deal of it.
Apart from these differences, the similarities between both also 
    exist in that they are both NOT varieties of English but approaches 
    to the teaching ELT of English in ESL or 
    EFL environments. Also, they both take care of remedial English for 
    learners who are defective in the use of the English language.
Lastly, which is a very obvious case, they both engage in the 
    teaching of English to learners, whether young or old. So, it could 
    be said that though these two approaches are different, they 
    1 word are not disparate.
The Origin of ESP:
The origin of ESP can be traced back to the end of the Second 
    World War in 1945. At this time there was an explosion in the 
    activities of science, technology and commerce. 1 
    word The need arose, all over the world, for a 
    international linking language which would serve as the means of 
    communication to people anywhere. English came in promptly to suit 
    that need since 5 words it is the language 
    spoken by the western world – the world powers. As a result of 
    this, there arose a need for the learning of the language by those 
    who desperately needed it: for the business man who needed to 
    communicate with foreign customers, for the technician who needed 
    to read manuals written in English, and so on. Also, there was 
    pressure 1 word on English language instructors 
    to tailor the language to be taught according to the specific needs 
    of the learner because of time constraints. So, no matter how it 
    was to be done, these needs had to be met.
It would be useful also to add that the oil crises in the 1970’s 
    also contributed to this, since a good portion of the western world 
    had to throng one word the oil-rich countries 
    for technological and business activities. So, what pervaded the 
    learning of English then, was ‘tell me what you need English for 
    and I will tell you the English you need.’ In other words, the 
    demands of the brave new world 1 word led to the 
    development of ESP.
In addition reaction to the situation above, 
    it was observed that the earlier method of teaching English which 
    was more like a leisurely stroll through the description of the 
    language, began to change. The language instructors now had to rise 
    to the demand of the world by providing a prompt and less 
    time-consuming way of learning the language, so there arose a 
    revolution in linguistics.
The developments in the field of educational psychology which 
    proposed a paradigm shift from the language to the learner and how 
    s/he can gain proficiency in the learning of the new language, 
    2 words also led to the origin of ESP.
Target needs:
This is a concept in ESP that is used to refer to 1 
    word what the learners needs linguistically to function 
    well in his or her target situation or area of specialization. This 
    is based on the notions of necessities, lacks and wants.
The necessities have to do with with the observable linguistic 
    characteristics in the target situation, which the learner needs in 
    order to function well therein.
The lacks have to do with those linguistic features which are 
    not yet present in the learner’s repertoire. When the necessity is 
    merged with what the learner already knows, the missing links would 
    then be seen as what the learner lacks. It is necessary to know 
    specifically what the learners lack in order to avoid a case of 
    teaching what they already know so that their motivation will not 
    be hampered.
It should be noted the needs do not exist independent of the 
    learners. There could be cases where what the learner wants is in 
    contrast with what the ESP expert has diagnosed to be his or her 
    need. In such situations, the trainer has to incorporate also these 
    wants of the learner.
Based on this, an instance can be given on the training of a 
    secretary. After a careful needs analysis procedure, the ESP expert 
    may discover that the one word linguistic 
    features which the trainee needs to function well in his or her 
    place of work would be based mainly on the writing skill: writing 
    formal letters, memos, ability to use correct punctuation, e.t.c. These features are the learner’s necessities.
Based on the earlier observation of the ESP expert, s/he can 
    then go on to carry out some diagnostic testing to know what, among 
    the earlier mentioned features, the learner already knows. In the 
    example, if the trainee only knows how to write formal letters, the 
    trainer will be able to recognize that other topics like writing 
    memos, and using correct punctuation, amongst others, are the 
    trainee’s lacks.
However, if this trainee feels strongly that s/he needs to know 
    more on how to write formal letters, this is his or her wants and 
    should be incorporated into the syllabus.
Learning needs:
This concept is concerned with how the learners will learn what 
    they are supposed to learn. After having identified the target 
    needs of the learner, the ESP expert will then have the obligation 
    to state how s/he intends to achieve the learning act by the 
    student.
In other words, the necessary methodologies which would be used 
    to train the students learner is of paramount 
    importance. These learning needs would hence incorporate questions 
    like:
What materials would be used in the training of the learners? 
    Will they be in soft or hard copies?
Where will the training take place and how conducive is the 
    place?
Who will the trainers be, how many are they, and how many 
    trainees will be given to each of the instructors?
What method(s) will be incorporated to facilitate easy learning? 
    Will projection screens be used or other electronic devices like 
    laptops?
When will the training take place? What days of the week and 
    what is the duration of each class?
All these and much more are the questions which attend to the 
    learning needs of the trainees.
Learning-centred approach:
The learning-centred approach is the last stage in the 
    development of ESP. This evolved from the earlier approaches which 
    focused on the language use of the learners in specific contexts of 
    communication. This approach, of course, shifted the focus off from 
    the language use to the process of learning the language which the 
    learners have set out to learn. For the proponents of this 
    approach, the question they seek to answer is ‘how can the English 
    language be learnt.’
In response to this, the ESP expert has to pay attention to the 
    most valuable means of successfully imparting the knowledge of the 
    language into the learner.
