Government Resettlement
Secondary School,
P.O.BOX 169 -
,
 Local Govern-
ment Area, 
State.
24th July 2007.
The Chairman
 Local
Government Area,
P.m.B 1004.
A LETTER OF COMPLAINT
I want to use these medium to 
     my congratulation to you on your recent 
    election, which makes you to become the chairman of 
    these local government area of 
     State.
Sir, my note to you is nothing but just to notify you about the 
    poor road of which these local 
    government have being facing all this 
    why. The state of bad road in 
    these local government Area is becoming - Unbecoming, that 
    the owners of cars can not be ha-ppy driving his or her 
    car on the road! because of the 
    bad poor state of the road.
Sir, these are some of the dangers and or consequences of bad 
    road. 
Poor transportation system, we all know that if the roads are 
    bad, there is a certainty that the transport system will also be 
    bad likewise. people will be scared because of the poor state of 
    the road, and travilling will 
    be very discouraging to make within 
    these local government. 
We all know the great importance of good road network, because 
    if the road is bad there will be an 
    enbargo to the development of 
    these local government area.
Nevertheless, poor road network will discourage the development 
    of Agricultures in these local 
    government Area. Bad road network will discourage the local farmers 
    not to produce goods which are transportable, and are not carriable 
    with hands from one place to another.
Furthermore, poor road network will stand as an obstacle to the 
    development of Economic in 
    these local government Area. Also 
    it will discourage petty traders who move from one place to another 
    in the cost of marketing or selling his or her goods. The poor 
    state of bad road will hinder the smooth plan of business and set 
    these local government Area in a 
    state of andicape.
Moreso, poor road facilities 
    also drive away investors, who which to invest in 
    these local government Area, bad 
    road network will poison the mind of the sons and daughters of 
    these local government, who lived 
    abroad or within the country, that 
    whieb to come home and invest because of the poor state of 
    road network. people who which to  come back home during an 
    important invent, like festival or 
    during sports or during traditional ceremony, will get discourage 
    to come home when they think about the poor state of road back 
    home.
Therefore, if some of these point are taking into consideration, 
    i think it will be the beginning of 
    greater and better things to come to our local government Area.
Yours faithfully,
 
    
24th November 2007
signature
