15  street,
,
.
15th April, 2007.
The Chairman;
 District Council,
,
 State.
Sir,
LACK OF GOOD ROAD IN  STATE.
Many people are quite aware of the good works your council has 
    done (and is still doing) throughout our district. For instance, 
    the Council has established many secondary schools and primary 
    schools, Adult literary classes, Dispensaries and Maternity Homes. 
    There is even pipe-borne water in our town and outside the town. 
    This is quite good and highly commendable.
However, there is a Particular field which your council seems to 
    have neglected. There is an acute lack of good roads in 
     state . 
    mmost especially the major road that 
    leds to the market square. For 
    instance we don't have a good road that 
    will lead us to the neighbouring town 
    inorder to enable use to buy 
    and sell our farm produces.
Moreso, most of our people 
    have to  a far distance journey that will last 
    for two days as the result of these. some of them are been attack 
    and rape on their way to sell their farm product. Also
     the bad roads had put a stop from going to 
    the nex next village to sell our farm produce 
    and they too can not sell nor buy our farm product.
Furthermore, the lack of good roads has cause a lot of shortage 
    in our agricultural products. Because they lack good and 
    inadquate 
    farmering equipment, their farm 
    produce is dieing 
    slowin gradually because lack of manure and 
    their land is not yielding like before. Which you also know that is 
    not everything that the farmer can do on it  
    but with the help of tractor and plough but 
    due to the bad roads we don't have any of 1 
    character those equ-ipment present now in our 
    own town.
Also due to this bad roads those of our 
    people and youth that w e s were suppose to be 
    in this town farmering and 
    schooling went out because of the far distances 
     they encounter. Sir, I recommend, as Immediate relief 
    meas-ures, that you allocate money for the reconstruction 
    of destro-yed 
    infracture inorder to 
    make leaving lively for us.
Therefore, as our 
    representitive you could use your good office to influence 
    governmental attitude to good roads in 
     State. If our farmers are provided with modern implements like 
    good roads, tractors and plough,  
    state could become the food basket of the State.
Inconclusion, 
    government should try to construct a good road to make 
    transportation easy, and interrelationship between the two 
    neighbouring town. 
I would be grateful if you could give the issue raise in this 
    letter the utmost attention it deserves 
    in- order to stem down 
    the public out cry about 
    constructing good roads in our area.
Yours faithfully
  
    .
