1
Owu is a city, the king's name is Akinjobi and his wife is 
    Erelu. Owu is a prosperous city and Ile-Ife is another 
    yoruba land close to them. So the 
    goddess Lawumi gave an order that no 
    yoruba should sell other 
    yoruba for slavery but owu 
    people didn't obey the instruction, the Owu people waged war 
    against Ile-Ife and took their men, took their men into slavery, 
    one of the People person that Owu took from 
    Ile-Ife was Inyuloye the wife of 
    Okunade so they took her as a wife. So Lawumi was angry because the 
    people of Owu didn't keep the sacred law, so 
    she Okunade who was a vengeful man, that wanted to avenge 
    not because of the love of his country but because of the love of a 
    woman, Okunade left his art 
    proffesion and joined the army and rose to the rank of a 
    maye, so the allied forces broke 
    into Owu city and killed all their men, meanwhile the king of Owu 
    Akinjobi and his officers fled, the allied forces took over Owu 
    land and sack the city of Owu.

6
Humour may be defined as the creation of laughter or it 
    initates laughter.
Humour can be found in the case of 
    Bluntschili the fugitive, a 
    swiss machinery hired to fight for the Serbs against the 
    Bulgarians rather to load his ammunitions with bullet rather it was 
    loaded with chocolates that was why he was nicknamed 
    "the chocolate cream soldier".
Another humour can be seen in the case of 
    nicola (the man servant) who was 
    embarrased by Catherine when 
    he brought the luggages of 
    bluntschili and it was seen by Mayor Petkoff, that was why 
    Catherine was angry and she embarrassed him.
Another humour was when 
    bluntschili came to return the coat, Raina shouted 
    "the chocolate cream soldier" and Mayor 
    Petkoff was suprised and asked 
    Catherine and Raina who how the man came to be 
    and who he was.

9
The poem the boy on the swing was written by Oswald Mtshali.
The poem is figuritive 
    which means that it has a hidden meaning.
the They didn't told us who the boy is, 
    but we know that somebody is on the swing.
There is a theme of poverty in one of the stanza's which 
    says "His blue shirt billows in the breeze like a 
    tattered kite" whe means 
    that the tattered and the blue shirt he was wearing shows a sign of 
    poverty. Meanwhile the blacks cannot afford long trousers only the 
    white can afford the long trousers, that was why he was asking his 
    history and asking in one of the 
    stazans which says thus "When will I wear long 
    trousers".
There is t loneliness, w 
    because he has nothing doing so he went to the swing to pass out 
    time. And he asked in one of the stanza's which says 
    thus:"Why was my father jailed".

4 8 6
Tano: Tano is the great gods in a novel. 
    When Pokuwa wants a child, the 
    gods told her to bring back  and egg so that 
    she will bear a child. Anybody that have any problem will go to the 
    gods for the problem to be solved.

Brenhoma: Brenhoma was known as a village 
    in the novel and the people of 
    brenhoma and the entire community of 
    brenhoma were doing well.
When Pokuwa went to the farm 
    and saw a dead body she shouted on top of her voice 
     "The people of Brenhoma come and 
    see what is happening in the village".
Question 6
Santiago is a fisher man, 
    and the name of the boy is Manolin, their relationship was a strong 
    relationship. The two of them love and care for each other. Manolin 
    even help the man in carrying his fish tools to his boat, Manolin 
    also buys food s drinks for the man even when 
    the boy is told not to follow the man to stream by his 
    father parents, 
    inspite of that he still obeys his parents but still he 
    renders some help to the man in some ways.
