SECTION A: AFRICAN DRAMA
Women of Owu
1) It was is believed in Yoruba land that no 
    Yoruba should fight other Yoruba nor capture another Yoruba person 
    as slave just as was testified by Lawumi during her conversation 
    with Anlugbua. But the people of Owu did not listen to this 
    adivce 
    rather, they 
    went fought Ife people 
    their ancestoral town, 
    capturing their women and taking them as slaves and looting their 
    stalls at Apomu market.
The Owu people fighting their 
    ancestoral town what which was forbidden 
    in Yoruba land led to the capturing In 
    Iyunloye 
    the wife of Okunade as one of the women 
    captures. This woman capture " 
    Iyunloye" in caused great 
    bitterness in her husband Okunade that he abandoned his profession 
    as an artist to join the army and rose to the post of a 
    Mayor who 
    led the Allied forces to destroy 
    Owu land.

SECTION B: Non-African Drama
Bernard Shaw: Arms and the Man
6) The Use of humor in the play
Humor is anything that envokes 
    laughter in the audience in a literary work.
Humor is seen in Arms and the Man, when the fugitive in the 
    girl's (Raina's) room 
    chambar revealed that his gun is loaded with cream 
    chocoalate instead of 
    bullets.
There is also humor about the disapp-earance 3 characters of the 
    Raina's portrait in the pocke pocket of the 
    coat. (Petk
2 characters Wh 
    General Major 
    general  Petkoff saw the 
    potrait in the coat's 
    pocket initially, but when he wanted to ask Raina how her 
    potrait managed to enter his 
    pocket, he dipped his hand into the pocket only to find out that 
    the potrait is no longer 
    there.
There is also humor about the ent 
    enterince of Nicola with 
    Bluntschli's loggage.

Section C: African Poetry
The Boy on the Swing
Simplicity of the "Boy on the 
    swing" as deceptive

PAPER 3
ASARE KONADU - A Woman in her Prime
3) The superstitions of Brenhoma 
    people
The people of Brenhoma believed that children are gifts from the 
    gods.
This believe can be seen from womens visiting 
    their gods like tano Tano. 
    for Adwoa 
    Pokuwa for example, visited Tano on 
    several occassion because of 
    her barreness and was given 
    some herbs and told to carry out prescribed sacrifices to the gods 
     which she did.
There is also superstition that the dead 
    lives in another world and that their spirit can come out to do 
    good or bad. This belie- 2 words ve 
    made the Brenhoma people to worship their ancestors. 
    for instance, when the fire caused 
    by thunderstorm struck the tree at the centre of the vill-age, the people believed that it was caused by 
    their an angry spirit of 
    their dead fathers (ancestors) and so they 
    preppared a feast to appease 
    the spirits and to  their land.

SECTION B: Non-African Prose
ERNEST HEMMINGWAY: 
    The Old Man and the Sea
The relationship between Santiago and the boy and the 
    significance of the bond.
Santiago is the old experienced fisherman who went fishing for 
    eighty-four day but came back without any fish.
The boy is young 
    Monalin is a young boy whom Santiago had taught how to fish 
    right from when he was five years old.
The boy (Monalin) helped 
    Santiago in many was: he helped him by 
    carring his fishing tools as seen in page 5 and even 
    provided food, coffee and beer for him (the old man).
The relationship between the Santiago and the 
    boy is caudial. 
    ) They 
    discused on various topics of interest to them like sports 
     fishing etc. like father and 
    child.
Santiago lovesd the boy and the boy also 
    loves him as seen by the boy's pity for the old man for his 
    misfortune/unlucky.
The way 1 character Santiago loves the boy 
    shows the way elderly ones should other younger ones who may not be 
    the own children and younger ones should help 
    love enderly ones and help 
    them.
