Hello dear,
I was going through my files and came across a mail you did me 
    some years back. I apologise for the gap. I however don't 
    remember how it all went. My writing is to break the gap and to 
    know the current situation of your study. But more importantly to 
    know you are there and that you're making progress.
I hope your family is also doing fine. How large is your 
    family?
I'm outside the country for now and hope to be back 
    soon.
Till I hear from you...
With kind concern,

My wife has no access to this e 
    mail stuff. She care
more for phones. Her number is .
kaa.
  nwanne 
    m,
Thanks for writing us. It feels sweet reading from you again. I 
    wondered at one point that you may have forgotten us, but your mail 
    now makes me think 
    i'mwrong. We continue to thank God for the baby and 
    for the things He brought you through. Always let us know how 
    things are with you: such helps us to remain in your love and also 
    helps us to pray. Have you picked up any job yet?
Best regards to your husband and the baby.
We love you.
.
 
    Nwannem,
I'm happy you wrote. 
    Congrats for the baby. We continue to remember you and your 
    family 'cos you are dear. Remain in 
    the love of God till he comes! Call us on .
Give your husband our love and regards.
We are .
Chief ,
As you can see, it's good to 
    yab; 
    as i yab you small now , you don begin 
    talk. Well, I have really been bothered about your 
    job matter and longed to hear from you. It was only when I got no 
    response that I decided to pull your legs. Keep your trust in His 
    power to give us ALL things that pertain to life and to godliness. 
    Encourage  for He lives, and if that 
    power that brought Christ from the dead touches her mortal body, it 
    will be made completely whole. This is the line in which the prayer 
    of faith will save the sick.
Here, the Lord has been my help. As for the 
    foto, 
    some one who saw them complains of my aging instead; but 
    it's not my fault; 
    na suffer do am. To say no be palmwine tapper born me, I for no old 
    like that; after all, no be the other day wey dem born 
    me? Our lectures have just ended for the session; 
    and did some seminars, including delivering a paper in a conference 
    in Norway. My supervisor and the dept 
    appear highly impressed with my work; and I thank God. The hope for 
    job or sponsorship is still on. He that keeps Israel neither sleeps 
    nor slumbers.
Onyenwe anyi chedo 
    unu!
Kelee 
     na 
    ezi na ulo gi,

Chief ,
Thank you very much for all the mails, the concern, the efforts 
    to see me out of the woods. I am pursuing to escape the woods, that 
    prayers should turn to praise. I am working on the contacts for 
    opportunities. If the Lord helps me out then it is done. Quite a 
    good number are around Norway and the Netherlands. Those of Finland 
    require economics and business. i hope 
    to throw in as much as I can.
Meanwhile, we are still in the struggle for a residence permit; 
    it has cost me all kinds of money, energy and time. At a point I 
    began wondering whether it was worth it. I am not just happy. 
    Well... but I know God is in charge and would act in my favour but 
    I want it now or understanding of His position and feeling that may 
    calm my acheing nerves. Still 
    pray.

Chief ,
Jooka!
Thank you for the heart-warming call last night and for breaking 
    my sleep. Even though you intended mischief by breaking my sleep, 
    the Lord turned it into a great cheer for me. 
    I makwa ka Onyenwe anyi si hu m 
    na-anya.( I hope you still remember; and that is 
    why I am not consumed despite nsugbu uwa a 
    niile). Na-enyere m Chineke ekele 
    biko; o dighi easy). This is my wife's 
    number:  . You can see how liberal I can be with 
    matters concerning my wife. But nke 
    gi, you will not allow me to talk to her; and when 
    I ask you to greet her for me you 
    wont. Ubochi m ga-ekworo ya 
    bia ebe ahu, you will repeat her bride prize 
    before I may leave her for you but not without a note of caution. 
    I ji m egwu 
    egwu?
I have not heard from bro 
     since writing him. Are you current 
    with him? How is his health? I thought to call his phone but 
    because of the high phone billing here I am not able since I 
    dont yet have any source of 
    income. Bro 
     
    kwanu? Have you been in touch with home? How is 
    the officer and his team doing? I could not discuss my 
    reloction with 
     before leaving. How is she doing? 
    What of  and 
    ? Too many questions, you say? Then 
    I must stop.
Aha m wu 
    
Chief ,
Ndeewokwanu!
I arrived Poland on the 17th and have since been moving from one 
    colleague to another who are putting me through and trying to get 
    my papers for the study regularised. All appear friendly and the 
    environment promises so much. I however have a battle finding a 
    bible believing church. It's not common. what they have are 
    the marian churchians of the 
    order of Rome. Meanwhile, i understand 
    a few Baptists are here. I'm looking for them. Some 
    Nigerian's are around who are about to start one apparently of 
    the penterascal order, which my soul does abhor. I want real gospel 
    work here. Pray on for me.
Your wife should be through by now; so there should be something 
    to wash. I wait for my invitation and ticket to come over for a 
    good dance. You know I need enough time to learn a good dance, 
    since I have not been dancing for so many decades now. Tell 
    bro  that 
    we shall meet on that day. Please invite him also.
Udo diri 
    unu,

Chief ,
Ndeewo!
The visa is now ready. Their pranks could not be sustained 
    because God would want me in Poland. However, it is 5 months that 
    they gave. My plan is to get there first. I believe the required 
    adjustments will follow.  seems to 
    have bothered them before they released it. All the same, we give 
    God thanks for everything. I will let you know the departure 
    schedule in my next mail.
Remaining ever grateful for your efforts, care and concern.
Greet your house.

Oh yes, dear Madam, as I was saying before I was rudely 
    interrupted by Night and her brother, Sleep, the other issues may 
    now follow.
Concerning the guide provided, I only need to add that you also 
    get prof 
    's phone 
    no, from her website ( just google her name,);' 
    Tram' may be unfamiliar to people 
    like us: it is a mini train, running on rails but working like 
    buses with designated'stops' and picking 
    and dropping passengers within cities. Numbers are also indicated 
    on their bodies and/or names. In this the case of 
    uni , 
    for instance, the tram that goes there is 
    Tram 3 ( from 
    ). if i 
    know when you might be arriving, I'll look out for you ( only 
    pray I won't be a blind guide).
With respect to data, anything goes: secondary school/ 
    university scripts written in English, term papers, lectures 
    recorded in audio or video materials, public speech, discussions, 
    special occasions, family and bedroom gist, meetings, etc 
    
My ticket and others have also reached me 
    to day. I plan to arrive on the 
    17th and depart on 23rd; so by evening of 17th I would have been 
    there already, God willing.
We keep praying. We'll still talk.
Kindest regards,

Thank you dear, for all my sins graciously forgiven. I have been 
    pressed for some time; so only manage to respond to things that may 
    not wait. The other is that because I love God I fear to sin, and 
    fear most to sin against you. This time, I had to find the time 
    because there was a threat to withdraw the promise of giving me a 
    phd, even though it is about 2am now.
I see your situation regarding the workshop. I guess the actions 
    with embassy did not commence on time. However, you are on track by 
    keeping the pressure on prof 
     and her team; I believe 
    they'll do everything possible within their law to see it gets 
    through. On our own part, let's keep praying; and you prepare 
    to travel at the slightest notice if running out of time. For this 
    kind of programme and opportunity, it's better late than 
    never.
I'll still write and discuss the other issues; but 
    it's too late now to continue.
May God give us this miracle!
 
    
Thank you very much Madam, especially for your willingness to 
    now award me this phd that has been outstanding. My worry though is 
    that it will now be in a field I'm not trained, and in 
    mischief - cracking peoples ribs. Moreover, I fear that might make 
    me a highly qualified quack. What if i 
    suggest it should be in the field of babysitting and home chores, 
    or on onomastics? areas where I'm already 
    distinquished. But if my 
    suggestion is not acceptable, then give me the one you proposed; 
    I'll manage it. After all 
    phd na 
    phd.
Concerning your preparations, press on the organisers to send a 
    copy of your invitation to the German embassy in Nigeria. This 
    might facilitate the approval. Also see how you can make them keep 
    in touch with their embassy, and only feed you back. In this way, 
    they may be the ones to inform you about developments, including 
    informing you when the approval is given; so that you merely go to 
    pick up the visa. I pray for you and believe you'll be 
    through.
How was 's headship? 
    I'm surprised that dr  was not 
    given time to settle down after his return. Well... who 
    knows....the considerations...
I should prepare to go to bed.
Take care,

Dear madam,
Thank you for your mail. I read it in a hurry, thinking I'd 
    get back to it and then reply, but pressures carried me away. 
    Please add also this my sin to the ones you have forgiven.
Concerning the query on the'English' 
    of my mail, I guess it is one of the edoid languages; so, I think 
    you're in a better position to tell. I was taught it on my 
    arrival and stay in Edo. It is completely unknown in the Igbo 
    nation, the best I know, but for Port Harcourt.
Concerning your work, now that your supervisor has traveled out, 
    you'll also travel out; so that it'll be one - one, no 
    victor no vanquish, period! When we meet, remind me to congratulate 
    you for being gracefully patient and resilient; but if the work is 
    through before we meet, then the 
    congrats could be part of my dance, celebrating an all round 
    excellent you.
Well, how far is your preparation? Have you got the visa yet, 
    and the flight ticket and others? How is your family getting set to 
    miss you a little? I would have come to take care of your children 
    in your absence, except that I'll also be in 
    . You know, that also is my 
    profession. But if you can get some 
    one like me, that'll be ok. Incidentally, most of my 
    colleagues in that profession who I may recommend are found around 
    the  environs, far from where you 
    are.
I guess we'd have a new H.O.D now, or is 
     continuing? Tell more...when you 
    reply.
God bless your soul and keep you prospering!

Madam, you do well. 
    God go bless you too much!
How you de prepare 
    for Germany? You don wash your clothes finish, iron them, buy box, 
    make hair, etc? School fees no dey sha, but you fit collect pocket 
    money, wee you go take buy sweet, chingum, chin chin, and snap 
    foto.
Any new show 
    for  
    side? I expect say de 
    thing go thro before August, so that we go wash am for Augsburg. 
    That mean say you go fine better he-goat wee you go bring come. 
    Then, you go quick come, so that you go teach me better Esan song 
    wee I go dance for you, as I go de chop the he-goat. No think say 
    better thing no good for my body-o: make de he-goat strong well 
    well, make him bear-bear de reach ground, make people know say na 
    better thing we de wash.
Madam, I salute you, 
    salute your people!
 
    
