Dear friends,
Greetings and Happy New Year to you. I tried to stay within your 
    radar in 2008 so you sort of have an idea what I was up to during 
    the year. This is a new year and I hope to do a better job. I 
    believe that I am living an exciting life. It’s hard to believe 
    that serving the living God can be so exciting but it is. Not the 
    travels, but what is accomplished. The travels can be hectic and 
    tiring, sometimes the schedules even seem impossible. Towards the 
    end of 2008,  and I drove to Nigeria 
    at the end of October, stayed for about a month and drove back to 
    . A month later we were on the same 
    road across the six border check points to 
     –  – 
     and back in the reverse direction 
    about three weeks later. We arrived in 
     and I had only one day before I boarded 
     Airways to be here in 
    . It sounds crazy but it is satisfying 
    to see what the Lord is doing.
So what is the Lord doing? The October/November trip had some 
    ‘rest’ in  built into it but the 
    highlight was the evaluation in , of 
    the amazing things God is doing in  
    state of Nigeria in church planting among completely unreached 
    people through a partnership project called end to end. People who 
    had no idea who Jesus was are now giving their lives to Him and 
    becoming part of new churches and the churches are also planting 
    other churches. I am glad to have a part in that. The 
    December/January trip was to spend Christmas at home but also to be 
    at the all West Africa staff conference of Great Commission 
    Movement. You should have been there at that conference. It was the 
    best I have ever attended in my 25 years of involvement with this 
    ministry. First we had the founding father of Great Commission 
    Movement of , Rev. 
      
    there from the beginning to the end and he was a great inspiration 
    to all of us. Then we had the first set of staff, Professor 
      
    and his wife, and the Director that took over from rev. 
    , Professor 
      
    and his wife. It was such a great time. The inspiration from our 
    new Director of Affairs  
     is so timely. 
     obviously knows where he wants to 
    lead us, he is able to articulate it clearly so everyone should be 
    able to understand it, and he seems to be able to find ways of 
    persuading us all to be eager to follow him there. I believe that 
    defines leadership. It was  
     that said if you think you are 
    leading but no one is following you, you are only going for a walk. 
     is not going for a walk. We thank 
    God for this young leader.
Well, I am writing you from boarding gate 14 of the 
      
    International Airport in . We should 
    start boarding in a short while. But I reflect on this one week in 
     and I thank God that he has directed 
    me to spend my life serving Him full time. You know we are working 
    on a follow up video series for the Jesus Film. There are six 
    village episodes and at least the same number for the city. 
    Representative staff from Western, Eastern and Southern and 
    Francophone Africa, men and women have been here in 
     with our script writer, 
      to 
    get the scripts for the village episodes ready for shooting. 
     is probably the best scriptwriter 
    of Christian films in Africa with more than 40 films that he 
    himself has produced.  is such a 
    humble person. We all wanted to end up with the best product that 
    is action packed but also true to  
    and teaches all the principles needed for a new believer to grow in 
    their faith. So with all our backgrounds from the 
     to , 
    from the  to Nigeria, from the 
     to , we 
    dissected every word that  has in 
    these scripts. We grilled him to find out what he had in mind every 
    point of the scripts made requests and suggestions that seemed 
    impossible and asked  to go and do 
    it. Every time, he came back in the morning to surprise us. By the 
    time we read the new script, all the problems are solved and he has 
    so very creatively rewrote the script that everything we want is 
    there. Amazing! Last night,  and I 
    hugged each other and said good bye for a while. He is now on his 
    way back to , Nigeria, where his 
    ministry office is. We meet again March and April this year to 
    shoot the films here in . What a week 
    this has been!
Please pray for  as he goes back 
    to his ministry, the  Film 
    Ministry, and for this product, that God will take care of all the 
    details of the shooting and the strategy for use when it is ready. 
    I look forward to it. When I get back to 
     this afternoon, 
     will meet me at the airport but we 
    only have a few hour together before she heads out to 
     for a week. Thanks for lifting us 
    up.

Dear Praying Friends,
 State of Nigeria may not represent 
    the ends of the earth to you, but to some it might as well be. 
    Today is Saturday, April 18th. We ate breakfast at 7.30 and 
    at 8:00, we packed ourselves into a two cabin Toyota truck, 
    ,  
    and  at the back, I was in the front 
    seat and  was driving. The three 
    ladies are from . 
     is a veteran with the Jesus film in 
    West Africa and has been through many adventures in Nigeria before. 
     is also not a stranger to Africa. 
    She was with us in  in May last year. 
    But  is a first timer. She just took 
    the job replacing  
    . ( 
    is getting married in  today). 
     who drove is a veteran Jesus Film 
    worker and discipler. He discipled the supervisors we will see 
    today. We set out about 8:00 from  
    Hotel where we have been staying, and we got on the 
     -  road, 
    which is not exactly a super highway. I thought this was what the 
    church planters meant in their song when they sing 
    ba ndamu da gargada hayan ba (no matter the 
    roughness of the road) until we got off the real road. Using the 
    truck is the only way we could have accessed the villages we went 
    today. We went on dirt roads or off road, and many times all we 
    would see was a foot path used by pedestrians and motorcycles. If 
     drove at 30 kilometers per hour, he 
    was speeding. We went in and out of gullies that were flowing 
    rivers during the raining season. I am glad it is still the dry 
    season. , who is the supervisor of 
    the church planters we are visiting today, sat in the back of the 
    truck from  until we were going of the 
    road.
 got down to pick up his motor 
    cycle, which was brought to meet him there at the junction by 
    , one of the church planters. He 
    went to get black market fuel for his motorcycle while we moved on. 
    It was not long before  and 
     overtook us. Motorcycles are faster 
    than vehicles on these roads. After what seemed to be forever, we 
    arrived at , where 
     had already arrived on his 
    motorcycle and was waiting for us. He proudly showed us his room. 
    Each house is a room here. They are all round huts about 7 feet in 
    diameter. All the building materials are obtained locally. The 
    walls are mud walls and the mud is obtained just by digging it from 
    the ground. The roofing materials are long sticks and grass, all 
    harvested from around them early in the dry season. The sticks are 
    tied with rope in a conical shape on top of the mud wall and the 
    grass is woven and tied to the wooden roof structure layer by layer 
    until a cap is put on top. There is a door but no window or 
    ceiling.  is from  
    State, is 47 years old and his oldest child is 24. He and his wife 
    chose to live here as missionaries, discipling and supervising the 
    church planters.
We sat in the truck and ate our lunch which we had brought from 
     Hotel, and then we parked our truck 
    and prepared to move on. We were heading for 
     and  is 
    the end of the road even for the truck. The 
     church was planted and the 
     church planted the 
     church. Five motor cycles were 
    brought, ’s and four others, and 
    each of us got on the back of one.  
    and  had never been on a motorcycle 
    before, but they were ready. It was a thirty minute motorcycle ride 
    from  to  
    , and we had to pass through two dried up rivers. We passed a newly 
    planted church at  on our way. 
     used to be all Moslems and planting a church there 
    took persistence.  went there 20 
    times before he was able to start the church. The motor cycle 
    riders seemed to be experts at 
    maneuvering on the winding roads and going in and out of 
    gullies. In 30 minutes, we arrived in 
    , where the members of the planted church were already gathered, 
    waiting for us. Most of them had gone to the farm but we still had 
    about 15 in the church. The church is rectangular, not round like 
    the houses and there are no mud walls. It was upright sticks 
    holding up the roof structure, and you have to bend down to enter. 
     referred to the bending down as 
    bowing before entering the church. The furniture was logs on the 
    bare ground that you sat on. We encouraged them and prayed for 
    them. The disciple who leads the church was said to be sick, so we 
    decided to go and see him. When we saw 
      he 
    was sitting in an open round hut with no walls except for poles 
    that hold the roof. This is like a sitting area. He looked very 
    sick. His left hand was very swollen all the way to his wrist. 
     explained that the problem is from 
    the water. River blindness is a real problem in this whole area 
    because the people use water from a pond used for everything. They 
    drink from it, wash in it, use the water for cooking and the 
    animals also walk into it and drink. 
     said that many people in the community are blind. They have a 
    great need for bore holes to give them good clean water. 
     seemed to be in great pain but all 
    we could do for him was pray. I wished we could help him take care 
    of this infection that got his hand so swollen. And the real 
    problem is the water supply.
 explained that he was discipled 
    by , he disciples 
     and  
    discipled  who was taking care of 
    the church at  and discipling the 
    people. We had four generations of disciples and lined them up for 
    a photo. It is exciting to see generations of disciples and newly 
    planted churches planting other churches all within one year.
We headed back on our motor cycles, and about half way back to 
     , who 
    had  at the back of his motorcycle 
    went down into the first dry river. I was on the motorcycle just 
    behind them and the man taking me asked me to get down so he could 
    push the motorcycle in and out at the other end. As I got down, I 
    saw  revving his motorcycle, trying 
    to make it up the steep hill with  
    sitting at the back. All of a sudden, the motorcycle, which had 
    been smoking from stress, stopped going and started to roll back. I 
    was scared and started to shout JESUS, JESUS. Before I knew it, the 
    motorcycle had fallen on its side,  
    fell backwards and  on the side, 
    partially under the motorcycle. I ran to 
     and helped her to her feet. She 
    staggered a little. But she was ok. She also kept saying I am a 
    strong girl. I am ok. I grew up on the farm, I have taken falls 
    before. I was relieved to see that she was indeed ok. She could 
    have knocked her head hard on the ground or broken a bone but she 
    only had some bruises and she later got back on the motorcycle, and 
    we continued our journey.
