Hello Mazi 
    ,
THANKS FOR YOUR PIECE. WE ARE BOOKED FOR DALLAS TX 
    TX=Texas TOMORROW ON A CHURCH 
    CONFERENCE. HAVE TO TAKE THE CHURCH MEMBERS FOR THIS TRIP. BACK ON 
    SAT. THANKS FOR YOUR PRAYERS.
GRACE TO YOU.

Mazi  
    ,
Please forgive my sins and trespasses. I am guilty indeed. First 
    you sent a mail. No reply. You sent your nice 
    pics and even with your handsome looks that is fair to go 
    for another wife 9they in skirts 
    look for such handsome , cashy fellows 
    ) yet I just got busy to reply. 
    Really busy. Looking for jobs and sitting late night on my 
    computer. Beloved 
    its been really serious coping, after the last job in 
    December 2006, but Jehovah is King. He rules in the affairs of men
    
How are you doing with studies ? Well, you look good, well fed 
    and strong. That must be as a result of'mana' from the heavens. Whichever way you are 
    employing to stay afloat, may God help and see you through.
We are doing fine. Please pray for my wife's health. She is 
    undergoing series of tests for some 
    canceroius cells on her breast. But we are full of life and 
    demand every prayer and trusting the good Lord to clear all by our 
    next visit to the hospital.(For your information only, please.)
God bless you real good.

<> wrote:
Chief ,
Stop this madness
Beloved,
A pornographic movie is being shot and is intended to show up in 
    America soon, which shows Jesus and his disciples as having 
    homosexual relations. This is similar to a play that has been in 
    the Theatre halls for a while. It's called 
    Corpus Christi" which means 
    "The Body of Christ". It is a revolting joke of our Lord. 
    But we can make a difference, that's why I'm sending this 
    e-mail to all of you. Could you, please, add your name to this 
    e-mail's list's end? If you do so, together we may be 
    able to ban this movie from being shown in America . I learnt that 
    , some regions have banned the 
    movie already.
All we need is a lot of signatures! Remember, Jesus 
    said:"That he who denies Me before men, I will also deny Him 
    before my Father which is in heaven." Please, do not simply 
    forward!!! Please, select all the text by dragging mouse down on 
    this message. Copy message (CTRL+C), then select 
    "compose" which gives you a new email page, position 
    cursor in the message box & paste 
    (CTRL+V). Edit any unwanted text, add your name at the end of the 
    list and send to all your contacts. When the signatures get to 500 
    names, whoever is the 500th name, please forward this email to:
 And then start it all over 
    again...... IF WE WORK TOGETHER WE CAN MAKE IT!!!!
Thanks!
My beloved ,
Thanks for your good fight. It may seem bleak and out of balance 
    for now, but you can be assured that all will be well. Hang in to 
    your God. I am a man of experience and I speak with God given 
    wisdom: O TEE AKA O JI DI OJO, KA OGA EMESI DI 
    MMA.
Now if your permanent residence is in sight, there may be need 
    to stay put and grab that one. With it you can move around the EU 
    region for one fellowship or another. You surely will be ok. But 
    please, keep your ears open. Out here, there is no permanent friend 
    or enemy. Everything is fast paced. Stay close to Him and keep 
    yourself warm. I mean real warm. Its -10 oF 
    oF=degree Fahrenheit here, will be 
    colder in the days ahead but we are doing great. Schools closed for 
    3 days while I stayed on with the kids and work around on my system 
    for job opportunities.  has started 
    with Good Sameritan 
    Hospital.
The Church is making progress. I also seldom give a big thought 
    on business, international biz. Pray 
    for me. But I know it is well with all of us. Greet your wife and 
    children.
Shalom.
same old,

Hello my brethren,
Above, please find links to 4 universities in Finland. Try to 
    locate your disciple or something close to it; then apply 
    immediately. Please, immediately.
I think this is a rare opportunity you may wish to look at. Most 
    of these schools offer scholarships and visa issue comes after the 
    admission is complete. Try these and follow up immediately. 
    Admission closes in March for the year, otherwise you will wait for 
    another time.
Act fast, please.

Re: How about Okpa d 
    oku? Any in Poland?
Hai 
    ,
It is certain that the eagle flies high. The king of birds does 
    not go for cheap, berated animals or prey. It stoops to conquer. 
    Mr.  of blessed memory was 
    not mistaken to give you the name' 
    '. And I know your lot 
    has fallen on pleasant places, the wealth of the nations are for 
    your grabs, yes for the anointed. I want to encourage you to check 
    on Him and find out His counsel concerning the things that remain 
    of Poland. Give me words, and that fast too. Do you have your visa 
    inside your'kpali'? I were 
    ike inwete ihe i 
    ga eji bilie njem. 
    I am talking about ihe eji a gafe 
    uzo. Kedu 
    maka Finland. Check the internet. 
    Anyi huru 
    otutu skolaship nulo akwukwo 
    n'ebahu. Mee ososo. Bell 
    ndi uka na aku.
Grace to you. I am still looking for a job. 
     is due to start job by next week 
    but our surprise and fear came on us regarding her funding: the 
    hospital is going to collect 50% of her pay. Imagine the 419 
    419=the 419 Nigerian Scam. That 
    leaves me with doing everything under 
    tthe sun to continue the struggle until 3 years time. By 
    which time the money borrowed for her school will be paid off. But 
    it is well with us here. Jehovah bu 
    Eze.
Get back to me fast, please.
.
Nwke m, 
    Olia? Kedu ka eke si anya 
    anwu? Anything yet? I am still looking and 
    trusting God for a way. The Lord is faithful, 
    lets wait for His salvation.
Just felt like seeing you and embracing you. Greet your 
    prof and family for me.
Jisie ike.

Mazi  
    ,
I am not of the extraction that trouble Israel; in fact, I am 
    determined to be a blessing to all and sundry 
    incluuding you. So here is my 
    wife's cell number:  and my house is 
     (I'm scarcely at home especially during the 
    week days). Now concerning what 
    we talked about, do your best to obtain your extended visa stamped 
    in your passport. Urge your oga to find 
    some in-school job no matter where and what. As long as it fetches 
    a dime to feed the stomach. I suppose you 
    dont go rioting there. Do 
    take some rest and plan ahead. Open the web and look around the 
    schools and possible' 
    igba oso' if' 
    ihe aturu anya ya emeghi ka esi wee 
    hazie ya'.
Now open an account, send the number. Understand? Be a good boy. 
    I am booked to stop work by next week. Pray for another job, 
    please. I will call you another time by 3am, so be prepared to lose 
    your sleep. Student no 
    soppose rest keeeh.
Gisie ike. Nwoke 
    nife.
Keep warm, please.
Gracia.

Hai 
    Mazi 
You are welcome to the Polish place. I trust the Lord will 
    settle you asap. I also know 
    that you will find the' 
    ego 
    igwe' at the right time, not 
    excluding your PhD bout. I have resigned to professional IT Audit 
    and the industry is my haven. As for the preaching of the word and 
    mentoring the people into heaven, it remains an eternal occupation 
    which I will enjoin you to hold tightly to in Poland. You will 
    understand what I mean.
Now can I have your telephone number, house or hostel address 
    and your professor's cell and office number. You know I am 
    your next of kin and guardian and I am answerable to the 
    mother land on your account. 
    Call  
     immediately. He is sick but still 
    looks out for you. Cell: ; Home:  
    
Now you know how to get me on my cell: ; Home: 
    
Let me know how things fare with you, please.
 completed her course on Nov. 17, we did the party on the 18th and she will sit for the board 
    before the end of the year. You will have to come over for the 
    celebration of my wealth very soon. Just pray for 
    .
Now answer this: How can you leave for airport by 3pm for a 
    flight scheduled for 10 or 11pm? I called 
    's house to learn you had 
    gone... gone so early to the 
    chargrin of my final departure instructions and advice? I 
    just hope you have your winter coat.
Let me hear from you, please.
May the good Lord keep you and rain His favour on you.

Mazi  
    ,
Congratulations and to God be the glory. You are welcome to the 
    West, where tax, bills, and all undefined pressures take center 
    stage in men's lives. They choke the Holy Ghost off you and 
    mean every word of it. Their scheme is to drag us to hell. It is of 
    course too late to suggest that. So be prepared for the fight. I am 
    glad you are mking a 
    head way to deliver the Western 
    world (though Poland is faded glory of the West) 
    
See you on the pay day.
.
Hello Mazi 
    ,
Hope you are getting ready. Have you obtained a sure word 
    ffrom the school? Have they sent 
    the letter? And what about your ticket? I talked with 
    bbro 
     about this matter. He got no 
    problems with writing a letter. He wants to make sure that the 
    school has a plan for your 
    sustainence and money for your fees so that you 
    dont go and be stranded. Make 
    double sure, please.
Here is 's telephone number: 
    
's is:  
    
Keep hope alive.

Mazi  
    ,
Kindly send the mail as we discussed. If you have, it could be 
    that I deleted it by mistake. I am arranging a serious discussion 
    with brother  on this matter. Send 
    it to :
 copy ,
I wait for the mail. Hope you've contacted the school.

Hi 
    MAZI 
Thanks for your concern and love. Bro 
     said you e-mailed sometime ago. 
    Thanks for your love and care.
's 
    no is  and Papa is with her at 
     (). Help me to plead my 
    case that it will be well very soon. Seems they are all weary of 
    waiting. The just shall live by faith.
God bless you as you travel and please bring back some
' okpa' and 
    agric loaf.
Talk to you later.

