Hello,
I checked and compared Prof's 
    numbers. I'm on track, I think. Later then. Bye.
.
Hello ,
I say'AMEN' to your prayer. I'm 
    sorry for keeping you awake, but I had no choice. I see my threat 
    worked wonders. Thanks, dear for replying me pronto. I knew I could 
    count on you. I look forward to reading from you on the other 
    issues raised.
Meanwhile, I just received the original of my E-ticket. I liked 
    the bit in your mail about being'better late than 
    never, for this kind of... opportunity' That's a 
    lot of challenge, I must say. But, thank you.I need the push. 
    Please keep in touch. I'll pray for strength, and do my 
    utmost.
Regards,
.
Hello ,
I forgive you for not replying my last mail, but you must reply 
    this, failing which I'll have no choice but to withdraw my 
    last promise.
A lot has happened concerning the workshop next month, but I 
    can't say I'm on track yet. What worries me most is the 
    visa. I've applied and gotten an appointment date - 12th - , 
    but it's so close to 
    depature -14th - that I'm worried. I've 
    barred my mind to 
    Prof . 
    They asked for advice and I gave them yours and added 
    name's, to contact the 
    embassey and their servants in 
    Nigeria, to ensure it is not delayed. They did, but I don't 
    think they're getting any positive responses. Anyway, 
    I've asked them to keep trying. Meanwhile, I'm carrying 
    on with my preparations, believing that I'll be helped.
Prof 
     has asked for data on Nigerian 
    English. I'm sure you're familiar with the request. 
    Please, give me hints on how to go about this and what to 
    garther.
I've also been sent maps and directions on how to get to 
    various locations in . No human 
    guides? I sincerely hope I won't get missing in transit 
    
    o. There are other things 
    I'ld like yo 
    discus and clarify with you, as 
    soon as I arrive ( by HIS GRACE ), and can contact you. I've 
    been sent a provissional 
    timetable too. Meanwhile, if there are any other things I ought to 
    know, don't fail to 
    aquaint me please.
Hope I have your promise to reply this mail, no joking.
Regards,
.
,
I surely am willing to award you that Ph.D now, for 
    succeeding in cracking my ribs with laughter, all through your 
    mail, and all the way from Poland too. It's no mean feat, I 
    assure you. When you return, I'll vote that you be allowed to 
    open an autonomous department of humour.
So, how are you? I'm just about applying for my visa, now 
    that the passport is ready. Thanks for all your tips, and the 
    encouragement about U.I. I'll visit them in the coming 
    week to put a few things in place before my journey.
The new H.O D is Dr. B.A. 
    . I just received a copy of my e - 
    ticket via email. I'm told the original copy has been sent 
    today by express. Just pray that things work out for me. I'll 
    keep in touch, while looking forward to seeing you. Bye.
Regards,
.
Hello ,
I just read your mail. Did you write it in Nigerian or Esan or 
    Igbo English? I need to be sure, to enable me respond fully.
Thanks for your extra tips. As my supervisor suddenly decided to 
    travel out'indefinitely', I don't 
    know what to say about . Meanwhile 
    ' I'm eager to be in 
     next month, and look forward to 
    seeing you.I'm praying and trying to get my papers. The CorPus 
    team are willing to ease my troubles. We'll talk in Germany. 
    Greetings from . Bye.
Sincerely,
.
Hello,
My last mail came to you before I could even complete it. I 
    can't explain it. Anyway, here is Mrs 
    's address, as well as 
    Gladys'.
1 
2. 
All the best always.
Sincerely,
.
