Hello 
I thank you very greatly for your mail dated 21st November. I 
    was happy to have the mail first that I now have your e-mail 
    address and as such, I can get in touch with you any time I wish 
    which is a good thing. We are fine here and the baby 
     is also kicking fine too. 
     has now fully had his HND Higher 
    National Diploma as he was here some three days 
    ago to show the statement of result as well as well as the 
    exemption certificate from the NYSC National Youth 
    Service Corps authority; It is a thing of joy as 
    one was not expecting it. I hope he will continue to do well.
How are the children and their studies ? God will continue to 
    pilot them aright all through their lives.
Greetings to you all.
Your dad,

Hello sonny,
It has been a long time that we exchanged mails last. But I am 
    happy that it is not long since we spoke on phone. How is your 
    programme ? I am sure that you are enjoying every bit of it 
    including the bitingly cole 
    weatgher which, I am told, has 
    gone down with normalcy taking place. We thank God for 
    everything.
I have also sent a mail to  
    intimating her with 's JAMB 
    Joint Admission and Matriculation 
    Board result and the choice of Course. I know that 
    you are3 both far from home, but 
    that notwithstanding, the graced given unto you both can still be 
    exploited. Therefore, whatever you can do for us do
We are fine here and everybody send his/her greetings to you 
    all.
It's all love from me,
.
HELLO ,
I have just read your mail. I was not able to go through the 
    mail yesterday because of other commitments. I was very happy to 
    have the report that the books eventually got to you. I nurse fear 
    whenever I have anything to do with our Post Office. We thank God 
    that the system is gradually improving. We shall eventually get to 
    our destination in this country. He is always on the throne !
I sent a text to you this morning. The network could not allow 
    it to go yesterday. You must have got it by now. On 
    , I have not been chanced to go to 
    her house this few weeks and her phone too, is off most of the 
    time. In any case, Schools have resumed here after the Christmas 
    holidays and she has started going to School. We should not relent 
    in our prayers for her total recovery. I will not want you to 
    bother about . He is a case by 
    himself. All he knows how to do is raise alarm with himself 
    standing aloof -- not caring to contribute anything to the healing 
    process. Any way, we have cause 
    to thank God on him. At least he is now working. It means that it 
    will not be everything on the wife alone.
We are fine here. However, rthe 
    problem we are facing is that we are all alone as 
     left before the middle of December 
    and we are yet to secure anyone. We were at 
     some four days ago, but there too, we 
    are still expecting from Sunday who secured 
     for us last year. We have trust in 
    God.
This year's Universal week of Prayers started on Monday, 
    5th and will end tomorrow Saturday, 10th We 
    continue to pray for our entire family and surely God will hear 
    us.
Greetings, most sincere, to all of you.
Yours very Sincerely,

