Dear Dr. 
I indeed appreciate the forward messages. Thanks a lot. 
    I've forwarded ASAP to 
    another colleague.
I learnt you're on sabbatical, right? So where are you? 
    Don't forget I look up to you for directions on some issues 
    bordering on career growth. We have very similar research interests 
    and specialization and you've actually achieved what I hope to 
    achieve: you see what I mean? I don't have a mentor here 
    sincerely. So I will always value your opinions and contributions. 
    The attached document is the article I told you about. I wish to 
    send it to World Englishes. Kindly go through. It's something 
    you can read at one sitting. Let me have your opinion especially as 
    regard theory. I do not really see what "theory" this 
    type of article should employ. If I can have it back this week, 
    that'll be great. God bless you.

Hello sir,
As I research on blogs I discover that the Nigerian presence is 
    almost non-existent. It appears that blogging is not yet known 
    among us (Nigerians). I also discover that many of the blogs are in 
    other languages other than English. I remember that you advised me 
    to relate my study of blogs to the Nigerian situation. I'm 
    afraid I may have to give up on my proposed topic on blogs since 
    the Nigerian dimension may be lacking and do something on e-mails. 
    Is this alright with you? God bless you.

Dear Dr ,
I am indeed very sorry that I have not been in touch with you. I 
    have been bugged down with a lot of 
    admin work here and as if that was not enough somebody 
    hacked my email box and made it impossible to contact people. And I 
    sincerely hope the idiot did not contact you too soliciting money 
    pretending to be me! I eventually got your address fro Dr 
     in 
    .
I am indeed very sorry that I couldn't make the 
    dead line. However this is my 
    new e-mail address you can always use it to get in touch with 
    me.
I hope the book comes out okay!
Thanks and stay blessed. 
