Beloved,
My new laptop has not been able to connect me with yahoo account 
    in my room here. Only My  account enters without 
    stress. I suspect I need to adjust something there. It the new 
    vista and it discreminate 
    alot. to intall any thing I 
    need to give special permission on the system. You know I sold my 
    previous laptop for this new one in Nigeria. I pray I master the 
    Use well.
Once I could get round the Yahoo connection I will connect you. 
    My love to brother . I need his 
    address on my account too.
You are blessed. I hope you are hearing from Mummy and Daddy in 
    Nigeria. I am fine. They Are talking 
    about swine flu in  City and some 
    other states but we have started to pray that the Lord wipe away 
    that virus in jesus name.

This is to express my very warm appreciations for all you and 
    your husband did to see that 's wedding is a 
    success. You are simply wonderful and appreciated. May the Lord of 
    heaven repay your labour of love.
I pray that the Christian family will continue to see more of a 
    show of love and demonstrations of God's kindness to 
    humanity.
We very much appreciate you. May God bless you and find 
    beautiful homes for your owns. And may the Lord continue to bind us 
    together with the cord of love that can never be broken.
Thank you for your supports both in kind and cash. God bless you 
    and make His face to shine upon you for ever and ever.
please send me your gsm 
    number by text. i could not trace the 
    one i got recently. This is why 
    i have not been able to phone you.
love.

on behalf of , myself, and our children 
    .
Hello ma,
Happy new year to u and 
    ur family. I ve been 
    trying your number for a while but I was told by  that 
    you are outside the country. Just wanted to say hello, how are your 
    boys doing. My regards to everybody ma.
Ma, I need your prayers. God has kept me this long although it 
    has not been easy. I remember your advice almost all the time and I 
    want to thank God for you. Ti yin 
    oni baje ni oruko Oluwa.
Ma, my fiance wants us to get married this year but I will 
    prefer it during or after my service year, so that we can at least 
    have some money to fall back on.
He is from the  tribe and he his the first son, 
    although he has been working in the bank for close to six years 
    with his ND National Diploma, he 
    just finished from LASU and we are waiting for his results. He is 
    writing his ACCA Associate Certified Chartered 
    Accountants. He has 
    alot of family obligations and we 
    dont really have much at the 
    moment. He stays in a selfcontain but we have to share the toilet 
    and bathroom. I am not really comfortable with this.
He wants me to tell my 
    fathers reelatives but 
    am objecting to it becos I know they 
    will not be happy about the arrangement, moreso the expenses of the 
    wedding will be basically on both of us. His parents are also of 
    the opinion that we wait. He said we should go to the registry and 
    after a while do traditional wedding and blessing of 
    marriagge but I am not 
    comfortable with this becos of the 
    transition btw the time of the registry 
    and the blessing of marriage.
This has been going on for a while and I am sincerely fed up of 
    the whole situation, pls ma, I need your 
    advice. 
