Beloved Brethren,
How is life, work, health and the entire family? Hope all is 
    well. I got sister's text last week and I appreciate so much 
    her labour of love. Hope your research is going on well. Glory be 
    to God for his mercies.We are doing fine here. We are also trying 
    our best to keep the  Ministry going even though the 
    burden of the work has been on a few of us who are making ourselves 
    available. The Lord has been our strength. How is the  
    Ministry in ? Greetings to brethren 
    there. Greetings to  and 
     too. Be blessed. 
     
Beloved Bro.,
How are you? how is my sister and 
    bothers? Hope they are all fine. Glory be to God for his 
    grace. How is your research work? Hope you are making good 
    progress. I had tried severally to reach you in the last two weeks 
    but the malfunctioning internet service and the epileptic power 
    supply will not allow. The Lord will continue to help you. I handed 
    over the money you gave me to the camp long ago but recently the 
    president want to know whether the big one
    (over 90.000) is for our camp alone or 
    we are going to share it with  Central Camp. I told 
    him it is meant for us but that I will still clarify from you. I 
    remember that it was part of the money donated by the trustee and 
    the Regional President which they want 
    uds to use to open a Regional/State account. As things are 
    now are will going to remit share or keep in a separate account. I 
    shall be glad if we have more clarification on the matter 
    ande as directed by the 
    president.
How you are still thinking and working about my case. The good 
    Lord will not forget you in Jesus mighty name.
Remain blessed.  
    
Beloved brother,
How is life over there? Hope pleasurable. How is Sister and the 
    chilrdren. Hope they are fine 
    just to ask of you and ask after the family. You are blessed in the 
    Lord.
 
    
Beloved Brother,
Thanks for your love, concern and encouragement. I pray that the 
    Lord will help you in your search for a host for me. We are doing 
    fine to the glory of God. Greetings from my family members.
My very warm regards to everyone.

