Hi ,
At long last you can read from me. Sorry for the delay. I have 
    been so busy in the recent times trying to tie some loose ends in 
    my life as an academic. I guess I told you I would soon be starting 
    my sabbatical leave. I guess I ll have more time then to contact 
    you. How's your family. I know one day our paths will cross 
    and I hope that will be soon. Please don't forget to send 
     number as you promised. I long to speak to him. I 
    will try and contact  today. Thanks. 
    
Hello Miss ,
How are you now? Mr , told me 
    about what happened to you at your base in 
    . You know I never knew that you have 
    moved place. wonder also if you 
    wer aware that was not in 
     for the last academic year. I was on 
    sabbatical leave at , University, one of the new but 
    fastest growing private universities in the country. I am just back 
    and I ve been wondering how I would get 
    your e-mail which I have forgotten before I received this mail.
So how ar you coping now? You know we heard this news and never 
    knew some people we know were involved. What is the situation of 
    things now? Is the government doing anything to rehabilitate those 
    of you affected? Please let us know the details of how things are 
    with you over there. , and I told the HOD about it.
Greetings from .
 
    
Uncle ,
E ku ijo 
    meta. Nice to read your mail How are you doing in 
    ? Thanks for your prayer on the 
    project. I receive your pastoral prayers with excitement. How is 
    your family? How is your work going? I believe you are making some 
    progress. I hope to call you on your number one of these days. 
    Please what is the US code that I will add before the number?
Hope to hear from you soon. I wish you all the best.

Dear ,
Thanks for your mail. The paper you referred to in your mail had 
    been published since last year. Unfortunately, I have not set my 
    eyes on the journal. I have written a couple of mails to the editor 
    to send me my copies of the paper and up till now, I have not 
    received any copy. i only saw it 
    advertised on the Web. So, I do not have the published version of 
    my article, neither do I of others . However, if you want the last 
    version of the paper sent to them before the publication, 
    i could send that to you. 
    the only problem you would have with 
    that is that you cannot cite any page. Please let me know if I 
    should send that and I will surely do so. I will also check if I 
    can send you some other papers on . 
    i will do this as soon as I receive 
    your response. My regards to your family. 
    
