It will come to pass, Alayi dialete will be included. In fact 
    people will sponsor it as many adverts will skim and 
    justle for a slot. Ya 
    gazie!
We closed on the school property and finally moved in on Sunday 
    Aug 2. I work like jakie in this place. I think God is in for 
    something big. I am expanding (in my brain) the frontiers of my 
    ministry. Some other NGOs (Dominion Center) is an arm that may 
    serve the Community and possibly do a print media anchorage. Pray 
    for me and hand out some wisdom.
Got to go. Jisie ike!

CONFIRMED A MILLION TIMES. GO AHEAD 
    QOUTE ME, SPURN OUT ALAYI DIALETES AND PURSUE YOUR 
    DREAM.
Ana akpom, 
    
Nwa-Nna,
Was a warm chat with exciting recalls and 
    memiors of the fellowship we 
    shared. God bless you and we keep on our kneels for your 
    wife's health and the success of the '
     touch-down'. 
    We'll give Him no rest until our winning goal hits the 
    net.Ndewoo! same old 
    .
,
You sound pious and at the same time I read bitter 
    vernoms. You wish me well and at 
    the same time I see concluding phrases to years of relationship. It 
    should not be so. When and how did all these start? I am not a 
    saint neither are you. But we must make certain that the devil is 
    armbushed to devour, to put a 
    knife on the string that holds brethren together. You should be 
    able to tell who  is by now. 
    Wealth, material things are but 
    ephumeral and fleeting. Riches have wimgs. And they can fly. As I said earlier, I trusted you 
    and committed a few things under your care. I 
    dont regret it. I will not. 
    It is not common with me to undo my conviction about someone I am 
    committed to. Yes committed to. When this bond turns to gratifying 
    a selfish interest, there trouble looms. 
    , I was pissed off when you could 
    not consider my dad's plight, when 'it was 
    not convinient for 
    you' to the dismay of my dad. (I have returned 
    that cheque given for the hire of the van because the van was not 
    delivered before the young man travelled East-ward). That should 
    tell you how hard it has been to cope financially with my school, 
    my family, my dad's upkeep, and my 
    sibblings. Second, without recourse to our 
    aggreement to put the van into 
    transport business, the use was diverted without a clear consent. I 
    sent it in your name but it still belonged to me. Assuming my dad 
    was not involved, maybe nobody would have heard us. That old man is 
    my pride, he deserves all the support I can provide. Thirdly, I 
    think you needed to be more open and expressive in your spending. 
    No updates, to mention of or detailing of the list of expenses. I 
    was not told, so I continued to plan on the initial bulk sale price 
    of the land (such plans as 'open account with 
    it', 'give your wife 50,000 
    naira for your car fix', 'pay 
    the clearing agent whatever you have' etc). 
    These are but the cracks. I still believe in times of pressure we 
    should observe to carefully yield to the inner voice of conscience 
    and obey the spirit of grace. I know you have much to chew with 
    putting things together for the family. Even at crossroads, 
    blisters and bitterness should not pervade the path of godliness. I 
    feel the pain as much as you do. But it is not yet over. You 
    dont have to say all the good 
    you have done for me, it is also unwholesome for me to give a 
    laundary list of mine. If we did 
    business together, I did not know the details. All I know is that 
    we traded TRUST, of which my financial stream powered the process. 
    I am willing to give you ALL the profit, if any, from all the 
    deliveries you undertook on my behalf. (I mean what I say without 
    any bitterness). I dare say, hold unto the 250,000 naira you said 
    is left of the 850,000 from the land sale. Charge whatever is 
    outstanding to my account, by the grace of God, I will pay when I 
    visit again. Again, I am not bitter; NO, not me. The 6 months you 
    used the Dodge should be charged to my account, its a goodwill to 
    you. And whatever we did agree that you use from the house you 
    should stay as we discussed.  it is 
    'an off tangent' to let the 
    devil smile at us after more than 30 years. Keep and own the 
    company-  papers. It is yours from 
    henceforth. I sent some books through 
     for your kids as we discussed. 
    Please accept them from him. I apologize for telling brethren the 
    issue that started all these. Again I did that knowing that we are 
    of same household, the inner caucus; Never intended it to be a tale 
    told by certain 'strangers'.
I will wait for the storm to settle, for I intend to find His 
    path and instruction and leadership therein. Do your best not to 
    end it like this. You were hurt, I was hurt; but we can only lead 
    the sheep by showing maturing and 
    examplifying with our lessons and take-homes from this 
    rancour.
God bless you and please kiss your wife for me.
 
    
Bro ,
As per this matter. it remains a 
    cord and a deadly blow to me. I 
    dont know what to say. Presently, I owe the clearing agent 
    500,000 naira for the 2nd container; I owe more than $20,000 on 
    credit due to the shipments; I owe total commitment to the course 
    of the Lord in the church and elsewhere; I owe my family 
    sustainance courtesy of the 
    expected job being applied for. I dont think these calculations 
    will help me. If my brother feels anything with respect to money 
    committed to his care, it is worthwhile to go pay the clearing 
    agent who has my wares under seizure. If he feels bitter for ALL HE 
    HAS DONE FOR ME FOR WHICH I HAVE NOT PAID, let it be and by the 
    grace of God, I will pay for those (if only I can be made to 
    understand what I am owing). I want to thank you for the great 
    concern and prayers. I write in pains; trusting God to help me. 
    Tell  that I 
    dont regret our relationship; 
    that I love him as ever and I appreciate our friendship even in 
    these confusion and dissections. God bless you, brother.
as always,
 
    
Beloved,
Kaanu!
For the meantime, please see the attached for your necessary 
    comments.
We will win the crown, no matter how the enemy schemes.
Udo diri unu,

,
I owe you appologies for 
    this mess. I believe the faith we share is worth more than gold. My 
    heart bleeds with these woes. I never intended it to be so. But I 
    could not but call  
    , 
    and 
    Sis.  
     to let out my burden. I did not 
    call you because it is never to be heard; a detestable development. 
    Trust me, I tried my best to get  to 
    open up and do the right thing. I have been hurt thrice by my 
    beloved  in business circles. This 
    time, my father is involved, credit card money is involved and the 
    issue of accountability and trust is fast eroded. The devil struck 
    a cord the past 6 or 7 months with a worldly possession. What a 
    shame! But it is now a known fact that 
     thinks I owe him a fortune. I 
    dont think so. Or he may be 
    right as my brother in Christ. Whatever it is, I 
    dont have that money I used 
    to have before; so the expectation is misplaced. I just want people 
    to wait until the harvest. I trusted 
     . That is why I gave him my money to hold, gave him the 2 vans I 
    sent (Sienna and Dodge) to sell and maybe I do not have any other 
    fellow to entrust my stuff with. I sold land (with him) and never 
    asked him to show me the physical cash; trusted him to use it to 
    open an account with it.(This he 
    alledges I was unstable in the 
    use) Along the line, money was needed to 
    clear the second container. And he came up with expenses that he 
    had done before. He cant 
    account for 850,000 correctly. Maybe he did not misuse the money. 
    But I have the right to know and ask for what belongs to me. 
    Assuming a certain need took part of that, he could have explained 
    upfront. (Afterall I forgave 
    more than 100,000 naira worth of goods from Cotonou in 1999). The 
    Dodge was for sale. He said it 
    couldnt sell. Upted for transport and I asked if he could 
    manage it. He said yes. I left Nigeria, and he diverted it to his 
    Daycare use without any recourse to our plans. I never knew about 
    this. All these while, my dad had been waiting. Nothing. I called 
    and asked him to please release the van; he wanted to buy it. 
    Offered 500,000 naira. The cost is $4,800 plus 250,000 naira 
    clearing. I refused to sell for his bid. Asked if he can pay the 
    cost instalmentally.  said no. About 
    2 weeks ago,  
     's brother wanted to hire 
    tha van for a week. 
     already paid for this. I asked 
     to release the van. He argues that 
    it is not at his 
    convinience.  judge 
    ' 's 
    convinience and my 
    father's loss.
Now here is the account:
Toyota Sienna sold for (according to 
    ) 1,150,000 naira. Plus 
     land land sold for 850,000 = 
    2,000,000 naira
Clearing cost for Dodge and Sienna= 500,000 naira
Changed to $2,500 = 420,000 naira
's expense in Nigeria = 
    350,000
Disbursed to my Dad = 170,000
 
    purchaesd row seats for Dodge= 35,000
Hotel Accomodation in 
    Lagos =30,000
Total 1,505,000 Bal. 495,000 naira (
     I asked him to give the clearing 
    agent this money)
, this is my very first attempt 
    to calculate this money. I trusted , 
    I gave him a free hand. I never doubted his fidelity. But the 
    problem is that he would not open up to let me know what he wants 
    out of our relationship. I borrowed to buy and send the van, to buy 
    the computers, I have been in school for these 2 and half years. 
    Never earned an income. My wife works to sustain the home. And 
     prizes his business more than my 
    father's daily feeding. Rebuke me where I err. Is it a bad 
    thing to put the van into something that will yield some cash for 
    my dad?
Let me hear from you my brother.
Thanks for your concern.
 
    
, release my Dodge van to Mr.   
    today 5/20/09. You should also provide the 850,00 naira from the 
    sale of my  land. Give it to 
      my 
    causine. Kindly send the 
    computers to my causine as well. 
    My properties in your flat should also be sent there, I will be 
    willing to provide labour and transport for conveyance, please. 
    Just to let you know that I have nothing against you if you can do 
    these. Remember the scriptures: What shall it profit a man, 
    if he gains the whole world and suffers the loss of his soul, or 
    what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? Your 
    account is cooked up, we never agreed to use the van 
    van for your private use (you call 
    it 'efficient use') to the 
    detriment of my father in whose name the van was sent. Very 
    unfortunate! Release my van today, turn in the other stuff and the 
    money and we'll be fine. Remember we are all brethren
    ,( I suppose we are).
God bless you.
 
    
Hello Nwa nna,
Grace! We got back from  on 18th. A 
    great visit and my dad and 
    sibblings are all doing great. Just to touch base with you 
    and know how you fare. I will be in , 
     April 20 
    thro 30 then move to  May1 
    thro May 5. Can we meet there at 
    bro  
    house in . I plan to visit 
      in 
     within those days. But I told 
    bro  to 
    invite you so you can process your visa. If this is ok, confirm, 
    please.
Everybody is doing fine here, including the church of God under 
    my care.
We love you.
The s
Nwa nna,
How are you and everything around you? God bless you richly. May 
    the Lord bless you and crown your efforts with grace and favor. 
    Just to find out how things are with you. Hope the home side is all 
    right. Family and friends alike. 
    Jihova di ebube. My studies are on, non-stop and 
    marathonic; fully on top gear. I will soon embrace the finish 
    line.
Ndewoo nwa nne m 
    nwoke.

