Hi ,
I write to confirm that I allow you the use of words you find 
    relevant in my correspondences with you that will make your 
    academic pursuit a success.
Have a nice day and God bless.
.
Thanks for the quick reply. When my colleague returns from 
    Poland he will tell me the secret of the card because he bought it 
    for me in the first place.
Cheers.
Hi Mazi ,
Merry Christmas and a prosperous new year mazi 
    . How are you doing?
Could you tell me why l cannot reach you with the phone number 
    you supplied me? l have added 00 to  using eurocity 
    card meant for W.Europe, USA and Canada 
    but was told that l was not allowed to reach this destination 
    (which cannot be true because a colleague reaches his Polish family 
    with it).
l'm waiting to hear from you soonest.
Cheers
Mazi ,
Thanks for your last mail. The dates you chose have sorted out 
    my troubles and confussion. 
    They have solved 's proposed 
    UK visit, even though he has not told me whether or not this 
    academic trip will enable him to see me. But I don't want to 
    take anything for granted. Whether he replies to my inquiry or not 
    has now been overtaken by events. Come any date in April now I will 
    be around, by God's grace. Then on May 10th, I will be 
    cracking jokes with you physically; take some strolls with you on 
    the 11th and on the 12th I will be headed home.
No, my human angel will not be travelling with me. I don't 
    want some uncalled-for attitudes. But the other angels will be my 
    bodyguards.
Please do not fail to let me know what to expect so that I will 
    start to prepare myself. First, I have been reliably informed that 
    I will need someone to take me from the airport since Polish 
    citizens on the roads or vehicles have no business with the 
    Queen's English.
Remain belssed as we keep in 
    touch.
Cheers.
Mazi ,
Please could you look at the dates below and tell me the one you 
    think will be good for you. The earlier I choose a date and make a 
    booking the cheaper the airfare becomes for me as 
    bro  
     is not forthcoming with the dates 
    he will be in the UK in April. I can't keep waiting for him 
    indefinitely, not even my voice mail has been responded to on his 
    return from Naija. It appears he is very 
    busy so I can't press him further on coming back.
The dates are: 23-25 April, 1-4, 10-12, 17-19 May. As it suits 
    you. If I spend one quality day with you it might help, isn't 
    it?
Cheers.
Mazi ,
Thanks for writing back so soon.
This age and times no longer require registration of business 
    for people to look for means of survival. How could you forget 
    this? I do not need a registration of those Ltds to buy a car from 
    Poland and send to Nigeria if we can find it cheaper there, or do 
    I? Yes, that is what I am talking about. Make your 
    inquries about what we can be 
    buying from there that are cheap and send to someone like 
      to dispose for us in 
    Lagos, take his cut, and send ours. Money? We can always use my 
    credit cards which I will keep repaying bit by bit if are sure of 
    some profit. We are not getting younger and retirement age is fast 
    approaching.
Thanks for your prompt invitation. I am actually thinking of 
    March/April so that I will recover from my US trip. If your 
    itinarary is ok in those 
    months, especially April you let me know.
Bless you. Thanks for your pic which 
    refused to get larger than the miniature.

Mazi ,
Bless you. Thanks for your mail at last.
It is true that I have become a traveller looking for any 
    international rather than local business. If you know what we could 
    get cheap in Poland and sell it elsewhere to make money please do 
    let me know.
The time being wasted doing one job and not realising anything 
    tangeable can be frustrating. I 
    have always told those who have the ear to listen that the Whiteman 
    has designed things such that you will eat and clothe yourself from 
    any job you do. Then pays all the taxes and bills and have little 
    or nothing to save at the end of the month. While this is happening 
    people home keep expecting you to send them elephants each 
    month.
So, I have decided to move around to see what to do. If it 
    clicks then the present job will go for good.
When you take a good look at the calender could you tell me the 
    month I could possibly check you up in 
     . When this is done I will also look at the suggested dates and 
    tell you how they run with my work roster which has been drawn to 
    the end of the year. I will spend two to three days with you.
Cheers and remain blessed.
 o.
Mazi ,
Happy New Year to you and to your family!
Thanks for your mail. It is good to read that you are ok and in 
    good spirit despite the sad situation at home, especially with 
    .
Did they stop your pay on the grounds that you have overstayed 
    the approved time?
How are you going about fighting the stopped salary? I know that 
    your physicalprescence will 
    make a difference but some brethren who are lecturers there can 
    also make some moves for you.
Your wife should be strong for you and for the children at this 
    time and pick up her healing from the Lord. I know it may be hard 
    for her but she does not need to give up at this eleventh hour when 
    you have made some in-roads already.
How is your programme progressing? What areas of breakthrough 
    with your acada at the moment?
I spent the Christmas period with the 
    s. He could not lay hands on your 
    number, we all would have said merry Christmas to you. My own phone 
    went dead as I did not take my charger with me else I would have 
    checked for your number.
I came back from  and picked up 
    some of those fevers and coughs and 
    cattarah that must have been hiding somewhere since I 
    returned from Nigeria. I have been out of job as a result for a 
    couple of days now. I dragged myself to check mails now.
Please do write again soon.
Bless you.

Mazi ,
Please accept our verbal Christmas card and greetings.
It is quite unfortunate that I have not come your way for a long 
    time now. I hope you have been hearing 
    form your wife and children? Do you have a last minute plan 
    to travel home in the next couple of days like you did last year or 
    is it two?
I was home in November and stayed for four weeks, returning on 
    the 18th of December. I produced some tracts for use by churches 
    and fellowships.
I shall say more on this later.
Cheers.
Mazi ,
Our spirit is one. As I was telling myself that it is long 
    overdue to do you a mail little did I know that you were already in 
    my mail box waiting for me.
Bless you real good. The Good Lord has always been faithful to 
    those who put their trust in Him.
My brother, I hope you are doing fine body, soul and spirit? 
    How bookuru? 
    Ma ndi ulo gi? God 
    will bring us together one day. I have applied for the oyibo 
    man's naturalisation. At the most it will take seven months to 
    materialise. They say the volume of application is great. That will 
    be followed with the application for the corresponding passport 
    after which I could travel with ease. The devil is fighting using 
    human agent to deny me the opportunity but the battle is the Lords. 
    By His grace, my hands are clean in not planning evil against 
    anyone therefore I am not afraid.
How is your work doing? Have you been learning Polish language? 
    I told my Polish colleagues that it might take me over 20 years to 
    learn the swiswiswi they speak here.
Please write again soon and speak much this time around.
Cheers
Mazi ,
Thanks a lot for your mail. God bless you real good.
I am happy that you have got some dates at your disposal. I took 
    a look at the visa requirement for Poland and was surprised that 
    one can even go to USA ten times over before one can receive Polish 
    visa. I hope to give you extracts of what I found out soonest.
The whole thing looks like a code which needs to be cracked. I 
    shall find a way though, even if it may take time. But by 
    God's grace I will see your face one day, God keeping us 
    alive.
"See you again soon"
Cheers
Mazi ,
It is nice reading from you. More importantly to know that you 
    are kicking fine like Nigeria's under 17 soccer world 
    conquerors. But I wish you are sharing from the bounties which the 
    country is showering on them.
I am happy that you are working hard to finish in record time. 
    The Lord will grant you that prayer in Jesus's name.
Yes I had always thought of retraining (not taught, as you put 
    it, since I am not sure of teaching). The problem really is that I 
    am not sure if I can raise the type of fees for education down here 
    after which one is not too sure of getting job with better pay as 
    our age continue to add. The youth now have an edge.
Is it like  
     who left the comforts of UNN and 
    took his family to settle in the US only to do all kinds of 
    minial jobs including working in 
    post office.
Someone who should have become a 
    prof long ago taking some good N200 000 and above per month. 
    When I heard of him last he was not even doing anything. The 
    brother I spoke with in the US two years ago was even promising him 
    a job to do care job with his clinic. I have considered the option 
    of teaching, with a view to training in PGDE to acqauint me fully 
    with the standard here. But one must produce evidence that one has 
    worked with children before of a particular age one desire to 
    teach. The process is like passing through the eye of a 
    niddle.
Mazi , it is really not the best 
    out in oyibo land.
If our country didn't turn out to be so corrupt how could 
    we all desire to leave home where our communal way of doing things 
    are more satisfying. Yes, we have electricity, water, good roads, 
    efficient transportation, jobs (no matter how poor) etc over here 
    but what about other things like relationship? How many people have 
    I visited this year and how many have been here? Maybe one or two. 
    (I was begging someone over a week ago so that I could visit their 
    family. It hasn't worked out). Is this it? What about 
    evangelism and all that? How many people are ready to give you one 
    minute to hear you preach to them? People at home think they are 
    missing heaven by not being abroad. But they don't know they 
    are not missing anything no matter how imperfect our systems may 
    really be.
Anyway, I do not know if I will say that I am confused as to 
    what to put my hands in. My wife has completed a degree and masters 
    degree in pharmacy yet no job for over a year now. Some two/three 
    weeks ago she was pursuing admission into the nursing profession. 
    Now she is frantically looking for job into anything. One of the 
    problems is that our tongue are not easily understood by the 
    average British. So how can you get a job when you cannot be easily 
    understood? Our closest White neighbour says she can understand me 
    but can hardly pick a word when my wife speaks. You must strain and 
    use no 6 to understand what this White lady is saying. I'm not 
    sure you have heard the Typical English person speak. I mean the 
    uneducated ones in particular. Don't mind the news readers. 
    Theirs look more like special English meant for everyone to 
    understand. I can go on and on. In any case, I will still be 
    praying for God to lead me into something that will be more 
    beneficial to me when I leave for home, God willing.
Have I entertained you?
Remain blessed.
Mazi ,
May the Good Lord continue to be your father even as you 
    continue to trust Him.
How are you doing brother, in faraway ? lt has been 
    long and I must apologise for not having knocked on your door all 
    this while.
First, I believe that your health is very much intact and that 
    your family is kept in touch with constantly.How are they doing?
What developments with your acada and teachers and researches? 
    Please keep me updated, including the job search. The last time we 
    spoke you promised to get me informed of any info geared towards 
    looking out for a vac job for you here 
    in the UK. Remember l promised to do all I can to help out if I 
    could get info about a non- 
    recident searching for job over here.
Please write soon.
Cheers
