Highway Rule 15
It is an offence for a large and slow moving vehicle to allow 
    smaller or fast moving vehicles queue behind it whenever the driver 
    can pull over safely to make way for other vehicles. – Section 15 
    of the Highway Code
THE rate of road accidents is on the increase. There are 
    occasional mentions of this fact, but little attention is paid to 
    addressing the situation. The statistics are startling.
According to the National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA, 
    annual deaths from road accidents are likely to increase from the 
    current 1.3 million to 1.9 million by 2020.
NEMA Assistant Zonal Coordinator Apollos Jediel said this as 
    NEMA mourned the death of its former Maiduguri Zonal Coordinator 
    Hajiah Fatimah Usman with her children in a road accident. He added 
    that over 50 million people were injured annually in road 
    accidents.
“It is high time we treated it as a national emergency as we are 
    daily being confronted by an epidemic that kills and maims on the 
    scale of major infectious diseases like malaria, tuberculosis and 
    HIV/AIDS,” Jediel said.
About 70 per cent of the accidents, he said, could be avoided if 
    large slow moving vehicles adhered to the provision of Section 15 
    of the Highway Code quoted above.
Another provision of the Code that is observed in breach is 
    Section 25 that is against indiscriminate parking of trailers and 
    tankers on the highways. Many sections of the nation’s highways 
    have these heavy vehicles parked in manners that obstruct the 
    highways.
More than 20 years ago, when the Federal Road Safety Corps was 
    established, heavy vehicles observed these provisions because they 
    were enforced. It was a common sight to see these vehicles make way 
    for smaller vehicles.
Their compliance with the law saved the heavy build up of 
    traffic on the highways, the resulting impatience and the accidents 
    that follow as smaller vehicles try to overtake heavy vehicles that 
    would not yield space. The situation has worsened with the poor 
    state of the roads.
Efforts to lower the rate of road accidents deserve better 
    attention than what is going on now. Mr. Jediel spoke in the 
    heat of the loss of a colleague who everyone spoke about in glowing 
    terms. Many other organisations and families have suffered similar 
    losses through road accidents.
Seventeen years ago, eight judges of the Supreme Court died on 
    the Ibadan-Ilorin road. The Federal Government’s immediate reaction 
    was to award the contract for the expansion of the road, notorious 
    for high numbers of accidents. The road remains uncompleted.
Lip service to road accidents is a standard response to this 
    epidemic. When the emotions are over, depending on those involved, 
    we quickly forget the promises to mitigate the factors that result 
    in road accidents.
A starting point could be education of road users and 
    enforcement of provisions like Rule 15. A lot needs to be done to 
    cut the high rate of road accidents, but beginnings, no matter how 
    small can be helpful.
