Unilorin Five
Tunji Adegboyega says the sacked Unilorin lecturers should have 
    been reabsorbed long before now
One can imagine why the eyes of the Unilorin Five were 
    tear-filled on June 12 when the Supreme Court reinstated them to 
    their former positions in the University of Ilorin. The 
    lecturers— Taiwo 
    Oloruntoba-Oju, A.S Ajayi, Adeyinka Banwo, Sola Ademiluka 
    and O. O. Olugbara had, through their counsel, Yusuf 
    Ali, SAN, sued the (then) vice-chancellor of the university, 
    Professor Shuaib Oba Abdulraheem, Tunde Balogun, the registrar; the 
    university itself and its governing council, challenging their 
    sack. The five were among the 49 lecturers sacked by the university 
    on May 15, 2001, apparently for participating in the strike called 
    by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). After about 
    eight years in the limbo, the court’s judgment called for sober 
    reflections and the concomitant tears of joy. This is even the more 
    so because three of the 49 lecturers involved in the struggle have 
    died. They were: Prof. Anthony Ehizua Annor, Prof. 
    E.E. Adegbija, and Dr. Samuel Ajayi. Maybe 
    they would not have died, if they were certain about the day of 
    their breakthrough. All they would have needed to do was wait 
    expectantly for June 12, 2009.
The case had been a celebrated one since it began at the Federal 
    High Court where the lecturers had gone to challenge their sack by 
    the university. They won. The case then moved to the Court of 
    Appeal because the university was bent on castrating its own, 
    notwithstanding that some of those involved were its pioneer 
    members of staff. It would have been honourable if Unilorin had 
    accepted the verdict then, if the sack was not designed to be a 
    vendetta. But the university, like the proverbial dog that is 
    destined to get lost, insisted on the appeal, saying that it sacked 
    the lecturers because their services were no longer required! The 
    same way our military waste their officers after training them with 
    huge sums at home and abroad! The university’s authorities remained 
    unperturbed by the incessant disruptions to academic calendars that 
    the matter had caused.
But it is not a laughing matter, that in a country where there 
    is an acute shortage of qualified and experienced lecturers, one 
    university would so trivially send away 49 without consideration 
    for the impact on the university and its students. At least 13 of 
    the sacked Unilorin 49 are professors and 22 of them are doctorate 
    degree holders. If only for this, the matter should have been 
    resolved a long time ago.
But ours is a country that is unserious about education. Whereas 
    the UN advocates that countries should endeavour to spend at least 
    26 per cent of their annual budget on education, Nigeria budgeted 
    only about 7.2 per cent to the sector this year. Rather than 
    commit funds and time to the development of the educational sector, 
    the former president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, and his deputy 
    established private universities. Add this to Chief Obasanjo’s 
    penchant for lawlessness as president, it will not be too difficult 
    to understand why the Unilorin crisis lingered this long, and had 
    to be resolved eventually by the Supreme Court. President Umaru 
    Musa Yar’Adua should be pleased with the judgment. At least, that 
    was his wish. That was why even when he had the ample opportunity 
    of resolving the matter, he chose to remain a prisoner to his rule 
    of law mantra by insisting that he would not want to interfere in 
    it because that would be sub judice. That was even after the idea 
    of resolving it out of court was proposed. Yet, out-of-court 
    settlement is recognised by our legal system. So, why was that of 
    ASUU different? We need to know, because, again, the matter 
    involved the president’s and the vice president’s constituency; 
    both of them being lecturers.
Fowls, we are told, don’t eat fowls. But in Nigeria, academics 
    eat academics. It seems lecturers suffer most when academics are 
    ministers of education; and perhaps worse when they are president 
    and vice president. Those of them who accept political appointments 
    weep louder than the bereaved, by being more fanatical than their 
    bosses in anti-academic pursuits. This is perhaps true of the 
    vice-chancellor of the University of Ilorin at the time the crisis 
    began, Prof. Shuaib Oba AbdulRaheem. He seemed to be a 
    student of Chief Obasanjo’s school of lawlessness. The university 
    lost the case against the lecturers not because the lecturers did 
    no wrong per se, but because the authorities 
    under Prof AbdulRaheem had no patience for due process. The 
    university was too eager to see the back of the lecturers rather 
    than travel through the slow and winding lane of due process in 
    addressing whatever offences the lecturers committed. Now, the 
    university would have to cough up the lecturers’ salaries and other 
    entitlements for the about eight years that they have been sacked. 
    And, God saves it, if the remaining lecturers whose matter would be 
    decided on the same issue in September win their case; the 
    university would have a lot of backlog of salaries and allowances 
    to pay. But that is the kind of thing to expect when someone wants 
    to behave like a typical Nigerian police man that not only arrests, 
    but also tells his suspect that he would not get out of the 
    problem; that is when one assumes the role of prosecutor and judge 
    in one’s own case.
Unfortunately, Prof AbdulRaheem who committed the illegality has 
    left the system. I wonder if someone should not be made to pay for 
    such laxity. If people are disciplined for causing such heavy 
    financial adversity to an establishment, then public functionaries 
    would learn one or two lessons. Why, for instance would Prof. AbdulRaheem dismiss people without giving them a fair hearing? 
    And, after the apex court’s judgment, he still had the temerity to 
    condemn the judgment as "dubious", when in actual fact he 
    should have blamed himself for giving the lecturers a 
    not-guilty-verdict on a platter of gold.
That an academic would treat people who are supposed to be his 
    colleagues so shabbily is disheartening. Yet, that seems to be the 
    trend in Nigeria. Indeed, it may not be far from correct to say 
    that the academics are their own worst enemies. I insist that 
    somebody has to pick the bill of the backlog of salary arrears to 
    these lecturers. For more than seven years, they did not work, not 
    because they did not want to work, but because someone just felt he 
    had some muscles to flex, or was possibly acting out a hidden 
    agenda. Somebody, not the University of Ilorin, should pick this 
    bill. And that person is Prof AbdulRaheem.
