Roger Federer: A Legend of his Time or of All 
    Time?
Roger Federer on Sunday claimed the final addition to his 
    glittering shelf of Grand Slam titles with a straight sets win over 
    Robin Soderling of Sweden who had spared 
    teh Swiss master the trouble of perhaps a fourth runners-up 
    place behind Spaniard Rafael Nadal.
But the bigger picture is the fact that the win on the clay 
    courts of Roland Garros equalled for Federer 
    teh record for most Grand Slam wins in tennis history at 14 
    titles at par with American legend Pete Sampras.
That has brought up arguments of Federer being the greatest ever 
    player in tennis in almost all quarters; almost all as there are 
    sections that still believe Federer doesn't quite cut it.
No doubt he is a fine player having also won five titles on the 
    hard courts of Flushing Meadows in New York and the grass courts in 
    the land of Elizabeth II apiece along with three down under in 
    Melbourne.
His appearance at Sunday's final in Paris; making Federer a 
    well travelled man in his late 20s, was his 15th consecutive 
    appearance in a Grand Slam final and 19th overall, something even 
    his nemesis Rafael Nadal is a long way from achieving if ever it 
    will be and something even the likes of Sampras, Andre Agassi, John 
    McEnroe, Patrick Rafter and Bjorn Borg among many others did not 
    achieve in their playing days.
And that's where the argument can gain credence because the 
    fact that the likes of Sampras and Agassi, Borg and McEnroe could 
    not achieve this only points to the competitiveness of the tour 
    during their time.
A competitveness that 
    makes Sampras' hold on the world number one position in his 
    prime all the more appreciable seeing he had the likes of 
    never-say-die Agassi, sleek Rafter, hard hitting Marat Safin, clay 
    court specialist (yea it's not just Nadal) Gustavo Kuerten, a 
    very much more devastating Lleyton Hewitt and Andy Roddick who then 
    was the kid on the block, Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain who also had 
    a love for the dirt court among others.
In Comparison, Federer's reign at first was so dominating 
    it was feared no one would ever be able to put a clog as he wheeled 
    away tournament after tournament so thank God for Rafael Nadal 
    whose rivalry ultimately saw him usurp Federer.
And true we can say there have been the likes of Novak Djokovic 
    and Andy Murray but take a look at the fellas Sampras had to deal 
    with and you'll better appreciate Sampras' status as the 
    greatest of all time by some people.
But no matter how many tournaments on the tour Sampras won along 
    with the 14 he Slammed, fact of the matter is that the American 
    never won the Roland Garros, a fact worsened by his infamous 
    inability to somehow never make the latter stages of the French 
    Open.
This is where the argument tilts to Federer's court. 
    He's reached the final of the last four French Open finals; 
    even Nadal can't boast of that, and he has continual made the 
    latter stages of clay courts in the Masters Series tournaments of 
    Madrid, Rome and all.
In the end, it would be safe to say Federer is the greatest 
    all-round player of his time likewise Sampras just as Nadal is 
    unparalled on the clay 
    courts and on and on. Last word, Federer and Sampras are and were 
    grass court specialist and few years ago, Federer did beat Sampras 
    silly in the fourth round of Wimbledon...
