Nigerian Women & Cervical Cancer
We at Poet Against Child Abuse (PACA) have been boiling 
    profusely. Our boiling is occasioned by the negligence our women 
    suffer in our society. Do our women not deserve care and reverence 
    in our society? Or are they just there to give us fine children and 
    cook for us, while we continue to debase their integrity on a daily 
    basis? We should not forget that women are the umbrella of our 
    happiness directly given to mankind by nature.
But how we abandon our women, sometimes to their fate, doesn’t 
    add importance and appeal to the heart. Nigerian women suffer from 
    one form of humiliations and intimidations to another in our 
    society. We give our women to early marriage and often subject them 
    to poor nutritional status, while the man enjoys himself with his 
    concubines or his friends outside the matrimonial home at the best 
    bars and hotels in the society?
PACA observes that over 500,000 deaths of women Nigeria records 
    yearly is caused by maternal mortality. Obstetricians and 
    gynecologists warn about the ravaging cervical cancer that is 
    predominant among Nigerian women. But how many of us are informed 
    about this scourge? Infectious diseases such as malaria, 
    tuberculosis (TB) and sexually transmitted infections are endemic 
    in Nigeria, but the incidence of a woman’s early marriage has been 
    pointed accusing finger by medical experts as the arch-cause of 
    cervical cancer.
The Nigerian government is yet to recognize that cervical cancer 
    that affects women is a serious problem, yet the victims are on the 
    increase. Even when the world is combating new health cases that 
    are affecting women, our nation seems to be on the “who cares” 
    lane.
PACA has noted that this cancer is the commonest that affect 
    women in the northern part of the country. While accounts say that 
    over 500, 000 women die of maternity mortality, cervical cancer is 
    said to be responsible for 300, 000 deaths among women annually in 
    the universe. And the developing countries chronicle eighty percent 
    of the deaths. Wonderful!
Before, it was breast cancer (that scourge?) that Nigerians knew 
    that women die so much of. But cervical cancer is described as the 
    unrepentant cause of death in women between 45-65 years of age in 
    Nigeria in recent times.
This disease has been accused to be dominating 60-75 percent of 
    women who live in the rural area. And when these women contract 
    this cancer, they don’t have access to good healthcare.
The whip that broke the 
    Carmel’s back PACA has noted is that, about two years back, 
    cervical cancer patients were identified by the smell that oozes 
    from them when they enter the hospital for consultation. While 
    Nigeria perhaps focuses on HIV, PACA learnt that cervical cancer 
    in comparable to something more than 
    HIV.
Poet Against Child Abuse is advising, mostly women, to often go 
    for medical checks. We are appealing to the federal and state and 
    local governments to see to the plight of the Nigerian masses who 
    can’t afford a medical trip abroad. We are also appealing that they 
    should do something, very urgent, about the hike in hospital bills 
    in Nigeria. The government should equip Nigerian hospitals – 
    privately owned or otherwise – to meet the standard abroad.
Odimegwu Onwumere, poet and author,is the Founder, Poet Against 
    Child Abuse (PACA),Rivers State. Email: apoet25@yahoo.com
