Immunity Clause: Remove it, pass FoI Bill
I would like to align myself very strongly with President 
    Yar'Adua's position regarding removing the Immunity 
    clause. I believe that the Immunity clause should be removed since 
    the purpose it was designed to serve has not been served and it has 
    instead become a barrier to vertical accountability, which actually 
    is the very essence of the democratic process.
Indeed, this position that the President has expressed should 
    traditionally go together with the institution of the Freedom of 
    Information (FOI) Bill because the removal of Executive Immunity 
    and the implementation of the FOI law work together to facilitate 
    accountability to the people, as this is what leads governments to 
    performing.
Understandably, the original intent of the Immunity clause is to 
    avoid frivolous civil suits. Frivolous in the sense that everybody 
    can go to court claiming one thing or the other against somebody in 
    public office, and that would get in the way of an officer 
    concentrating.
It is supposed to check civil issues becoming a nuisance but we 
    have interpreted it in such a way that it has become a problem now 
    for democratic process, making way for deliberate violation of the 
    laws of the land against the very essence of holding public office 
    whereas such should be subject to instant prosecution.
I would therefore say President Yar'Adua is in the case 
    setting the appropriate moral tone for the country.
We may find instruction in that President Clinton faced a 
    barrage of different litigations as sitting-president yet none and 
    all prevented him from doing his job as the President of 
    America.
We can actually remove the Immunity clause completely and allow 
    for some other ways whereby executive public officers settle their 
    civil litigations."
Regarding institutions that the constitution actually adequately 
    provides the relevant powers, it is saddening, the fact that most 
    State House of Assemblies by remaining in the pockets of their 
    Governors, for instance, have turned out as one of the tragedies of 
    our democracy which is why there is such a high level of bad 
    governance at the state level.
This situation is an opportunity to renew my call for a 
    citizen-legislature because if we had citizen legislators where the 
    state legislators and those at the National Assemblies is made up 
    of sound professional people as successful lawyers in their 
    chambers, artisans, or whatever they are, and then only take out 
    time to make and review laws and they have oversight, they would 
    probably be less amenable to purchase by state or federal 
    executives and hence be less inclined to be willing tools of 
    executive abuse.
I urge all to learn a huge lesson from the fact that ordinary 
    average law enforcement agents can tap the phone of a Governor, as 
    is the case of Illinois right now, overhear discussions of 
    possibilities of dealings in a corrupt manner, and so begin 
    attempts to prosecute almost immediately.
