Apapa As Agony
APAPA now stands for agony. Forget it is home to Nigeria’s major 
    ports and the nation’s premier gateways by sea. 
More than 60 per cent of goods imported by sea make their ways 
    into the Nigerian market through these ports. 
The Oshodi – Apapa Expressway, with links to the international 
    airport, and the border towns of Seme and Idiroko is of the 
    Trans-African highway, and its 10 lanes take goods and petroleum 
    products to the Nigerian hinterland through the Lagos-Ibadan-Benin 
    Expressway – all of which are in a state! 
Under normal circumstances, the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, easily 
    the busiest in Nigeria, should enjoy priority attention of the 
    Federal Government because of its place in our economy. 
It is a sad irony that the Federal Government uses this and 
    other roads that are crucial to the economic development of the 
    country to demonstrate its unwillingness to perform its duties to 
    Nigerians. 
At all times, users of this road suffer one agony or the other. 
    The road for ages has been a victim of indiscriminate parking of 
    trailers, tankers and trucks, flooding of its portions during the 
    rains and unimaginable gullies. Tankers and trucks that converge at 
    Apapa from all parts of the country to pick up goods and petroleum 
    products use this road. 
Many of the drivers are totally lawless. While they wait for 
    their turns to pick up goods they park their trucks as they wish. 
    This immediately creates traffic bottlenecks. 
The Lagos State Government, which is stiff in its insistence on 
    the maintenance of law and order, is often at loggerheads with the 
    unions of these tanker drivers, who rather than obey the law go on 
    strike to arm-twist the government. 
With the rains, the twin problems of collapsed sections of the 
    road around the Tin Can Island ports and flooding of some parts of 
    the highway when it rains, Nigerians are forced to endure hours of 
    untold hardship whether going to or getting out of Apapa. 
Owners of heavy industries that flank the highway have not 
    helped matters. They abuse the areas around their premises, 
    compromising the drainage. 
It is high time the Federal Ministry of Works and the Federal 
    Roads Maintenance Agency put the Apapa Expressway in proper 
    condition for our economic well 
    being and the health of its users. Nigerians have suffered 
    enough on this and other federal roads around the country. 
It has been over a year since the infrastructure concessioning 
    agency was set up. The establishment of this agency seemed a 
    verification of the notion that the Federal Government was no 
    longer in a position to maintain its own roads. What is holding up 
    this agency from commencing work on Apapa-Oshodi Expressway? 
The Minister of Works and Housing, Dr. Hassan Lawal, 
    should realise that the rehabilitation of this Expressway is too 
    critical to our economy to be ignored any further. There should 
    also be a maintenance schedule for our roads to save them from 
    falling into regular disrepair. 
