More than amnesty
THE Federal Government should be applauded for its amnesty for 
    militants in the Niger Delta. The amnesty, however, needs more 
    content to end the conflicts in the area. 
Issues about the Niger Delta would always raise emotions. It is 
    in the midst of those fiery exchanges that the points are massively 
    missed. 
What are the points? The Niger Delta needs to be developed 
    quickly, before oil loses relevance. Laws that discriminate against 
    the people in terms of their economic and social engagements must 
    be dismantled. 
Some of these laws are even constitutional, like Section 44 (3) 
    of the Constitution which abrogates their rights to their land and 
    other natural resources (without compensation), a right the same 
    Constitution freely provides to other Nigerians. 
The recent argument that militancy has made development 
    impossible is a facade. Before militancy, why was the area 
    neglected? 
Amnesty for the militants is a good idea. However, the Federal 
    Government must have the political will to muster resources for 
    development of the area. Government so easily finds funds for 
    peripheral matters on the Niger Delta and not the core issues. 
Last April, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua said: “We have created 
    the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to champion the overall 
    holistic development of oil producing areas. 
This administration has been fully releasing full funds to the 
    Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).” What holistic 
    development of the areas is not in the unfunded three-year-old NDDC 
    masterplan? Does government’s responsibility to the Niger Delta end 
    with partial release of funds? 
“The government has released enough funds for the JTF to acquire 
    the proper capacity to be able to enforce law and order in the 
    Niger Delta,” Yar’Adua continued. What did the JTF’s full force 
    achieve? 
Since the creation of the Niger Delta Development Commission 
    (NDDC), the highest release of its funds, in relation to the 
    approved budget was 39.7 per cent in 2002 when its budget of 
    N28.4 billion had only N11.2 billion released, a 
    shortfall of N17.1 billion. 
The 2006 and 2007 budget releases of N17.3 billion 
    (N80.2 billion allocated) and N26.1 billion in place 
    of the allocated N97 billion were made. 
These resulted in a shortfall of N326.23 billion as only 
    N110.31 billion out of a budget allocation of N436.54 
    billion got to NDDC since 2002. Were militants responsible for 
    these partial releases? 
Militancy is the poor excuse for not developing the area.  What 
    would an amnesty offer kidnappers, who the police said, made $100 
    million as ransom in three years? Militancy is not the only problem 
    in the Niger Delta. How will government ensure inhabitants of the 
    area benefit from oil exploration, which has denied them other 
    viable economic activity? 
Government can do more about the Niger Delta. The release of 
    Henry Okah, who was on trial and extension of the amnesty to other 
    militants is a good first step. 
The best amnesty is total development of the area and 
    improvement of lives of its people.
