Valentine's Day the Nigerian way
Valentine's day comes to us today and a tradition that 
    began more than a thousand years ago will continue. This day is 
    second only to christmas in the exchange of cards and has put 
    majority of us on edge...some people are even praying for gifts of 
    houses, can you imagine, on 
    valentine's day, ha ha?
In preparing for this piece, I went in search of the history of 
    this somewhat historical holiday. I tell you, it really is 
    confusing...different stories from different quarters. However, one 
    fact that is general to all the different versions of the story 
    which is that St. Valentine's day is all about that 
    ever popular four letter word - LOVE.
It is also suggested that the 'holiday' had originally been a pagan holiday 
    held on the 15th of february 
    before efforts were made by the 
    romans to ' 
    
    christianize' it...that effort can be 
    said to have been successful, to some extent.
Enough of the history...back here in Nigeria, in the 
    characteristic way of 
    nigerians, we have embraced the holiday with widespread 
    arms to the extent that, year after year, we all look forward to 
    it.
Also, as we seem to always do with all copied stuffs, majority 
    of us seem to misunderstand the real reason for the holiday. The 
    complexities that surround the word LOVE is not in 
    anyway helping our situation.
Majority of us seem to attribute the 'holiday' mainly to sexual activity, which is 
    why I can bet my fingers that many more children will be made on 
    the morrow. Sadly though, many diseases would be transmitted 
    too.
On the other hand, there are those of us who believe it is a day 
    set aside to show love...'original 
    love' to others especially the less privileged. 
    Couples would also be afforded the opportunity to 
    strenghten the bond of their 
    love although, in their own case, it is advisable that it be more 
    than an annual event.
From whatever perspective we want to take it, tomorrow, fast 
    food joints will witness remarkable sales, the sale of 
    uhm...'raincoat' is expected 
    to increase and the events holding tomorrow will be well 
    attended.
It is even more advantageous that it falls on a 
    saturday...I remember my 
    secondary school days when my classmates will absent themselves 
    from school on 
    valentine's day...believe me, I was not amongst 
    them...they face the consequences themselves though. Everybody will 
    have the chance to do whatever they like...ehn, I fear for the just 
    matured females.
Talking about events, there are quite a couple of them 
    celebrating love which had been holding since yesterday. Gbenga 
    Adeyinka, Z-Don and others will be at Princess Hall in Akute for 
    Couples Day-Out.
Sincerely, one of the events that struck me most is the one 
    organised by Continental Broadcast Service, it is a party to be 
    held on board a yatch that will 
    cruise the Lagos coast line from this evening till the wee hours of 
    tomorrow. More interesting about the event is that its proceeds 
    will be donated to charity.
Well, come what may, y'all should just make sure you have a 
    swell time not minding your opinion of the day...CHEERS!
