Ilorin 49, the judiciary, and the academy
Ropo Sekoni commends the Supreme Court judgment on the Ilorin 
    university lecturers
The recent Supreme Court decision on five of the famous Ilorin 
    49 has once again demonstrated that Nigerians at all socioeconomic 
    levels believe in the role of knowledge in the construction of 
    modern society and in the role of the judiciary in stabilizing 
    modern societies. Formal and folk media have been overflowing with 
    expression of congratulations for the judiciary and the 49 workers 
    in the nation’s vineyard of knowledge production. The Supreme Court 
    that has recently been acquiring the status of savior of the 
    country’s democracy on account of a few restoration of the mandate 
    of some governors is also believed by many to have recently added 
    another laurel. The judiciary is also now being seen as the 
    defender of academic freedom and the right of academics to use 
    strike as a legitimate way of expressing grievances to their 
    employers, be they private owners of capital or governments. In 
    addition, the positive reaction of the attorney-general to the 
    judgment is encouraging, even though superfluous. But more 
    superfluous is the statement from the University of Ilorin 
    administration on the judgment.
It is surprising that government officials think they need to 
    assure the nation about their intention to support a court 
    decision, more so a decision of the Supreme Court. In the context 
    of separation of powers that Nigeria finds itself, it is expected 
    that government officials, particularly the attorney-general should 
    have no reason to assure Nigerians that they would support the 
    decision of the nation’s highest court. support of courts’ 
    decisions by every level of government and every government 
    official, like that of private citizens, should be automatic. To 
    say that the government is in support of court decision is to give 
    the impression that it has a choice not to do so. Even if President 
    Yar’Adua had not started his regime by announcing an abiding 
    commitment to the rule of law, it still would have been wrong for 
    the attorney-general or anyone in government to refuse to implement 
    the decision of the court. It is the job of those in the executive 
    and legislative branches of government to accept and implement the 
    verdict of the courts.
While the Minister of Justice’s statement "If the 
    Supreme Court gives a judgment, that is the position of the law. 
    And this government has never disobeyed the Supreme Court. We will 
    comply with the apex court. . . . I have already left instructions 
    for the Solicitor-General of the Federation to get a copy of the 
    judgment on Monday and write the University of Ilorin immediately 
    to comply with the judgment" is not an offensive 
    thing to say. However, one wonders if this assurance is necessary 
    in a truly democratic context. The reporter’s question to the 
    attorney-general surely gives him a good opportunity to reaffirm 
    the rule-of-law credentials of his government. Ordinarily, nothing 
    is wrong with giving a politician an opportunity to campaign for 
    his party. But the average reader of newspapers is likely to be 
    confused by the attorney-general’s need to urge the University of 
    Ilorin to comply with the judgment. Does the institution have a 
    choice over the matter in a democracy?
When the executive branch failed to accept the decision of the 
    judiciary during the regime of General Obasanjo, Nigerians drew 
    attention to the irregularity of such behavior in a democracy. For 
    example, When General Obasanjo refused to carry out the directives 
    of the court on payment of the funds due to local governments in 
    Lagos State, Nigerians complained bitterly and called Obasanjo a 
    dictator and an enemy of democracy. Even Obasanjo’s 
    attorney-general who appeared to share Obasanjo’s view of the 
    superiority of the executive to the judicial branch got some flaks 
    from his fellow members of the bar, as well as from the citizenry. 
    In other words, it is not a sign of political strength for anybody 
    in the executive to give the impression that he or she is doing 
    anything special by his or her acceptance of judicial 
    interpretations and decisions. It is, constitutionally, the job of 
    the judiciary to interpret the law of the land and the duty of the 
    executive and all agencies of government to accept such 
    interpretations.
More worrisome is the reaction from the University of Ilorin. 
    According to media reports, one of the institution’s deputy vice 
    chancellors seized the opportunity of reacting to the judgment of 
    the Supreme Court to rehash the story of the problem that led to 
    the case itself. Let us hear from the deputy vice chancellor in 
    charge of management services: "As an institution, we 
    believe in the rule of law. The Supreme Court has delivered its 
    judgment. We believe in the rule of law and we will obey, . . . 
    Judgment is one thing but the truth of the matter is cause and 
    effect in nature. People who have forgotten what caused the problem 
    are now making pontifications about the case in the 
    media."
Agonism or conflict that is the driving force for tragic drama 
    is finding its way to news writing. Otherwise, there would have 
    been no reason for the deputy vice chancellor to re-open the case, 
    accuse the media of bias against the institution, and blame 
    citizens for pontificating. The question that would have helped the 
    University of Ilorin to look ahead on this matter is to find out 
    what difficulties the institution envisages in implementing 
    re-instatement of the five lecturers and payment of salary arrears 
    for nine years, not whether the university will accept the 
    judgment. The University does not appear to have any choice in the 
    matter. It is expected to comply with the Supreme Court’s decision 
    and should not have needed any prodding from the Minister of 
    Justice.
The point of this writer’s complaint is about the danger of 
    information overload for young children being socialized into 
    modern society. In the way questions are posed by the media or are 
    answered by public servants, we may unintentionally be sending 
    wrong signals to children being socialized into the culture of 
    democracy. To ask the attorney-general and the deputy vice 
    chancellor their position on the verdict of the Supreme Court is to 
    use impunity as the cultural default. We need to use the rule of 
    law as the default in post- military and post-Obasanjo Nigeria.
The academy also appears to be under the undue influence of the 
    agonistic aspect of Nigerian politics. If it was not, there would 
    have been no Ilorin 49 in the first instance, but the post-Obasanjo 
    era should call for a new sensibility on the part of all agents of 
    socialization: the media, government ministers, and institutional 
    leaders. In the academy, the dominant culture does not encourage 
    analysis after conclusion and recommendation. The Supreme Court’s 
    verdict constitutes conclusion and recommendation on the issue of 
    five out of the Unilorin 49. There should be no attempt to re-open 
    the case or start analysis after the delivery of concluding 
    statements on this matter.
A judgment is a settlement of conflict. What is needed now is, 
    while waiting for similar verdict on Ilorin 44, how to make sure 
    that the University of Ilorin is financially and psychologically 
    pre-disposed to carry out the orders of the Supreme Court, not to 
    re-open old wounds.
