Who runs the affairs of KADSACA?
The Kaduna State AIDS Control Agency (KADSACA) is the agency 
    that is saddled with the responsibility of coordinating the 
    activities of HIV & AIDS in the State. The history of 
    HIV&AIDS in Kaduna State dates back to around 1991 where 
    Development Partners provided funds and capacity to different 
    stakeholders to respond to the epidemic.
Kaduna State Government has been responding to the epidemic 
    through a multi-sectoral committee until June 2007 when the 
    committee was dissolved. The Committee was transformed into an 
    agency with the backing of a law that was passed by the Kaduna 
    State House of Assembly on the 25th of May 2007. The trend of HIV 
    prevalence in Kaduna State has fluctuated in the following manner; 
    in 1991 – 0.9 %, 1999 – 
    11.6%, 2003 – 6.0%, 2005 – 5.6% (HIV&AIDS 
    sero - prevelence survey) and 
    2007 – 6.3% (NARHS report).
Over the years, the government of Kaduna State with the help of 
    the federal government, development partners and civil society 
    organizations has recorded some milestone achievements in the 
    response to HIV&AIDS in several ways by building the capacity 
    of civil society organizations and other change agents to respond 
    to the epidemic. Since KADSACA turned into an agency in 2007, a 
    befitting secretariat was built, 5 departments were created with 5 
    directors employed to head each department, and an Executive 
    Secretary employed to oversee the agency.
Other achievements include the development of a robust 5 year 
    State Strategic Plan (2006-2010), a State Monitoring and Evaluation 
    Plan, and a yearly State workplan amongst others.
However, some of the challenges faced by the Agency include the 
    non inauguration of the KADSACA board (saddled with the 
    responsibility of over sing the activities of the agency by law). 
    The members of the board have been identified, but are yet to be 
    inaugurated. Some speculate by attribute the delay in the 
    inauguration to the fact that government is having second thoughts 
    about inaugurating the 34 member board as stipulated by law (law 6 
    of 2007). No matter the explanation, Kaduna State gets to suffer 
    when we have to wait for 1 year 11 months to take a decision. 
    Therefore, the big question is – who has been and is still running 
    the affairs of KADSACA?
Another challenge is the non review and dissemination of the 
    State Strategic Plan developed in 2006 to stakeholders to 
    accommodate new and emerging issues. This is the document that 
    everyone working in the area of HIV & AIDS in Kaduna State is 
    expected to use as a guide before contributing to the HIV&AIDS 
    response.
Other challenges include non disbursement of funds to proposed 
    activities as prescribed in the workplan, unclear job descriptions 
    for staff employed by the agency, excessive bureaucracy in getting 
    things done which should not exist in an agency that deals with 
    life threatening issues. The departure of Strengthening Nigeria 
    Response to HIV&AIDS in Nigeria (SNR) is also viewed as a 
    challenge because the newly employed staff of the agency, most of 
    who do not come from a development background need some kind of 
    capacity building to equip them with skills and non bureaucratic 
    methods that will enable them perform their duties effectively.
In the light of the foregoing, we recommend the immediate 
    inauguration of the board members of the agency so that they can 
    start performing their duties and the prompt disbursement of funds 
    to various change agents as stipulated in the State Strategic Plan 
    and Work Plan respectively.
As civil Society organizations that represent the voice of the 
    people, our responsibility is to keep speaking and contribute 
    towards ensuring that change come to the benefit of all.
