Stringent Bail Terms
NIGERIANS who talk about revolutions should be interested in the 
    revolutions taking place in the judiciary, especially as they 
    affect bail conditions for suspects. Under what most judges term 
    “stringent bail conditions” suspects are given conditions that are 
    almost impossible to meet. 
From the fantabulous sums to the 
    calibre of persons who should be sureties, it is certain that bail 
    conditions are becoming instruments for deterring suspects from 
    enjoying some measure of freedom. It started about four years ago 
    when the former Inspector General of Police Alhaji Mustafa Balogun 
    went on trial for sundry offences. 
His bail conditions demanded that a former president, a former 
    chief justice of Nigeria, six grade one traditional rulers, one 
    from each of the six geo-political zones, and retired federal 
    permanent secretaries to stand surety for him. The conditions were 
    simply impossible. He never met them. 
He was later released when the duration of his detention and his 
    trial exhausted the length of his imprisonment. After Tafa, it has 
    become common for judges to impose those impossible bail conditions 
    on suspects without batting an eye. The practice is spreading. 
We think bails have their purpose in the determination of 
    matters, where bails are applicable. If a judge, for spurious 
    reasons, usually at the instance of the prosecution, denies a 
    suspect the right to bail, it is an abridgement of that right and 
    an abuse of the judge’s discretion in giving the bail conditions. 
    Suspects have their rights, and one of them is the abbreviated 
    liberty the law provides for them. 
Many of them have been denied the right under one guise or the 
    other. Even in cases of those who fall ill in detention, the bail 
    conditions take no notice of their illness or the fact that they 
    may need medical assistance abroad and urgently. 
A few other cases illustrate this trend. Three directors of 
    Transcorp Hilton on trial got bail conditions that included paying 
    N500 million each and a surety (a top civil servant) to also 
    deposit N500 million for each of the directors. If it is assumed 
    that the suspect would have N500 million, how would a civil servant 
    make savings of N500 million? In another case of alleged fraud, 
    again against civil servants, the suspects were to post a bail bond 
    of N50 million and a surety in like manner. 
The suspects cannot meet the conditions. The court had refused 
    them bail by other means. Attention of the Nigerian Bar 
    Association, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, the police and others in 
    the judicial processes, is needed to get the courts stop further 
    abuses of rights of suspects. 
The fabulous sums the courts ask for bails are oppressive. They 
    thwart a suspect’s right to momentary freedom and easier access to 
    his legal team. The courts should not be seen as denying suspects 
    their rights. If the courts cannot provide some comfort for 
    suspects, then it would be a great blow to peoples’ confidence in 
    courts, and a negation of the judiciary’s 
    place 
