Size of Corruption
THE media are awash daily with news of corruption in most places 
    in Nigeria. The details vary, but they are all about public  
    officers who have perfected schemes that funnel public resources to 
    their private uses. 
Some concerns have been raised about corruption and how wide 
    spread it might be in the society. Suspects include federal, state 
    and local government officials. 
Their responsibilities range from electricity to education, with 
    a minor difference being in the size of the accused’s greed. 
No sector of the country’s life is shielded from these practices 
    and this should worry all those who have the interest of the 
    country at heart. 
How can the situation be arrested when it is a common practice 
    among those who are entrusted to serve the people? 
Sometimes the National Assembly is mentioned. However, the 
    legislature is a close circuit system that has a way of covering up 
    for its members. 
While it is an issue in the media that members of the House of 
    Representatives want accountability for millions of Naira spent on 
    their annual retreat and the 10 years of democratic rule, it 
    becomes obvious with time that when legislators accuse each other, 
    the interests are as selfish as those of the people initially 
    accused of tampering with funds. 
Many questions arise from these abuses. Why are laws that are 
    meant to safeguard public funds inoperative? Is stealing such a 
    profitable venture that people are no longer ashamed to soil their 
    names? 
Do the punishments for the huge sums of money that are said to 
    be stolen match the offences, in relation to impact of the stolen 
    funds on the lives of Nigerians? Why do people still indulge in 
    corruption knowing the scandals that follow when they are caught? 
    
Factors that promote corruption include recognition society 
    accords people whose source of wealth is suspicious. Others are the 
    stupendous amounts these criminals steal, often enough to hire the 
    best lawyers and corrupt the judiciary, if the need arises, and 
    gain control of legislative houses to make laws that target 
    corruption are ineffectual. 
The league of corrupt former governors, ministers and the like 
    is actively accepting new members. The attraction is that this 
    elite group is above the law, pollutes the system and ensures that 
    those who enforce the law, do so after considering the league’s 
    interests. 
Off springs of this league 
    inhabit most of the Government Houses in the country, from where 
    they rein in the legislature and 
    judiciary to please their bosses. 
The prosecution has worsened matters. At all levels, there is a 
    rush to show government is fighting corruption, without deepening 
    the resources with which to amass evidence to earn convictions in 
    court. This seems a ploy to free suspects. 
Corruption thrives because those engaged in it are no losers. 
    Their footprints are everywhere as the nation’s greatest statesmen. 
    
Nigeria’s dwindling resources cannot sustain the current size of 
    corruption, in case the authorities were looking for a reason to 
    curb corruption.
