Transcription 1   when when you ? to
Transcription 1   be modern in Nigeria
Transcription 1   you know I'd show people that
Transcription 3   yeah ?
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 3   ?
Transcription 2   it has something about ?
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 2   oh okay
Transcription 2   how w- how w-
Transcription 1   then
Transcription 1   the rasta ?
Transcription 2   oh really
Transcription 2   what what group
Transcription 2   what group
Transcription 1   no not a group it was erm
Transcription 1   the reggae sun splash
Transcription 2   okay
Transcription 2   how did you get that gig
Transcription 1   erm I'm the only female member of the rasta association in Nigeria
Transcription 1   yeah so
Transcription 2   only ?
Transcription 1   yeah just
Transcription 1   a couple of myself and a couple of other Rastas
Transcription 1   as we enter
Transcription 1   it was it was very it was fun
Transcription 2   how
Transcription 2   but there are more female rastas
Transcription 2   in Nigeria
Transcription 1   no they're is different with a reggae actress
Transcription 1   erm and to be a rasta
Transcription 2   okay
Transcription 1   you know ?
Transcription 2   what's the difference
Transcription 1   the difference is
Transcription 1   a rasta is erm
Transcription 1   apart from being able to sing reggae you should be able to chant
Transcription 1   you should be able t-
Transcription 1   I speak two different varieties of Patwa
Transcription 1   and it's not just about doing reggae it's about knowing
Transcription 1   that singing in itself
Transcription 2   you are a Nigerian
Transcription 1   yes I'm a
Transcription 2   how did you get all the three different
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   I just told that I work hard and I travelled a bit erm
Transcription 1   erm this is very good for me 
Transcription 2   yeah yeah
Transcription 1   yeah yeah
Transcription 2   I know the girls have picked up everything
Transcription 1   I'm telling you
Transcription 2   I told you it's been a while I heard about your wedding
Transcription 1   oh
Transcription 2   on air you don't have to go there
Transcription 1    yeah but but that is work
Transcription 1   we're talking about work here so
Transcription 2   yes work and
Transcription 2   personally yourself
Transcription 2   so tell us how's
Transcription 1   the life
Transcription 2    how's the life of a married woman
Transcription 1   erm
Transcription 1   my life hasn't changed
Transcription 1   erm
Transcription 1   being married being single
Transcription 1   being married
Transcription 1   yes
Transcription 1   being single
Transcription 1   still the same
Transcription 1   just with a little more love
Transcription 1   my personal life but I'm not talking about that
Transcription 1   I'm talking about work here
Transcription 1   erm
Transcription 1   I think
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   with girl power
Transcription 1   I'm touring Nigeria we-
Transcription 1   we don't want to force like Nikky and Bibby said
Transcription 2   oh really
Transcription 1   erm I'm presently featuring on a TV series
Transcription 2   all right
Transcription 1   and of course erm
Transcription 1   my second album
Transcription 2   okay yeah
Transcription 1   should be gotten
Transcription 1   yeah
Transcription 1   I'd know
Transcription 2   ?
Transcription 1   yeah
Transcription 1   my second album
Transcription 1   Babe
Transcription 2   it's time we've run out of time
Transcription 1   yeah we run out of time you just have to give me erm
Transcription 1   Bibi we're good we're back you know how it is been away for a bit
Transcription 1   but we're back and erm
Transcription 1   doing videos and answering
Transcription 2   just Bibby and me we are like 
Transcription 2   three in one?
Transcription 1   doing a video is working hard as
Transcription 2   working hard as well
Transcription 1   getting out new stuff
Transcription 2   all right unfortunately
Transcription 2   it's the end of the show
Transcription 2   have a great independence day
Transcription 2   party responsibly
Transcription 2   ?
