Sent: Wednesday, November 29, 2006 3:11:34 PM
Subject: Re: Ekele diri 
    Chineke
Sorry about the cold o.Jide obi 
    gi aka, I nu.Maybe they are in the harmattan 
    season now just as we are and may soon enter the 
    okochi. Meanwhile,I was reliably informed 
    that there are Nigerian shops there where they sell elo 
    aki and okwome (sheabutter).I 
    am sure those would be more effective than all those creams they 
    sell there.On a more serious note,I heard that what they have there 
    now is winta which is a child's play 
    from the real thing, wiukwu her elder 
    sister.Just learn to cope, 
    afterall, aki guru nwata 
    aguu anaghi aru ya afo.
As far as I can remember, only 
    gave me your rechargeable lamp.What should I do with it because it 
    is lying fallow here. has reference 
    in 2 courses.So she is coming back. 
    Your'supervisees' 
    did well. Those graded or second-marked by 
     made C's while others made 
    B's.  missed A by whiskers. 
     is not back as such but was here 
    yesterday to vote in the ASUU election.
 wrote a very beautiful paper 
    though his voice can sometimes be husky.But it was a good 
    outing,nevertheless.
Fresh students resume December 6,while stale ones resume exactly 
    a month after. As for the fone, 
    I'll see what I can do when the salary is paid. I don't 
    think the monthly returns issue went in your favor. I am sure that 
    before  asked for a second one to be 
    issued and signed,he had made up his mind what he wanted to do.That 
    guy is really beginning to prove that he has a small mind.But that 
    is a matter for anothe mail.
Enjoy the uguru to the fullest.

Ol boy,na wa 
    o.I really feel you.Don't mind that I have 
    not written since.Our server was down again! Today was the first 
    day it would work in God knows how long.I probably told you that 
    the last mail I sent you was from a cybercafe.
Yes the Igbo program has taken off and we had our first class 
    yesterday.Only 5 were present and I spent the greater part of the 
    time to disabuse their minds of feelings of inferiority. I think we 
    are on track.
I have to stop.I have stomach ache and the pain is too much.If 
    we are online tomorrow I shall tell you about the full blown war 
    between the VC and  people, including 
    the Oba. Ol 
    boy you are missing. Salivate until I get 
    beta. If you want it 
    quicker,pray. The dean said he was not happy that you did not send 
    to tell him you got to your destination safely.

Na wayas 
    o.So you just decide to forget me like that 
    ee kwa? 
    God dey na poor man 
    prayer. If you have forgotten me, 
    me I no go forget 
    you.By the way, Happy new year in advance, sorry 
    in arrears.How are you coping with the cold,or has it abated now? 
    In fact,don't envy us o because the harmattan this year was 
    imported. It is marvellously unmerciful. Everybody is 
    complaining.
So how is life over there now? I believe you have settled in by 
    now.Keep it up.I need not remind you that you have your destiny in 
    your hands now.What you make of it now will decide whether you are 
    coming back to start counting days with 
     again or not. I am sure you will make 
    the best of where you are now, and as we discussed before you left, 
    if it is possible for you to get a PhD there before coming back, 
    just go ahead and do that and decide what to do with the one here 
    when you come back.
We have nine candidates for the Igbo program so far,that is 
    talking about those who have already cleared. Maybe more will clear 
    before the end of the admission exercise.At least the program is 
    off the ground and there will be no going back and nine students is 
    not a bad start at all.
My regards to the friends I am sure you have made there.

