Baba,
Bawo ni o? 
    Hope you are adjusting well to your new station-- 
    whether, food, new friends, etc? 
    May His grace continue to abound towards you. 
    
Thanks sir. I resumed in  this 
    week. However, the training they are offering here is far away from 
    what my heart desires. Be praying for me for divine wisdom and 
    patience to hear what God is saying.
Yes, I'm aware of the spiritual climate over there, and 
     in general. It was almost a xtian 
    continent. What happened that has now resulted in this sorry state? 
    But the big question is, what do we need to do so that Nigeria and 
    Africa will not go the same way?
May the Lord continue to build His church.
Two more weeks for  and the 
    children to join you. I've not asked her in the last 
    3days if their ticket money is 
    in. If not, don't you think we may need to change strategy of 
    raising that money? May the Lord continually bless you with His 
    wisdom.
Shalom!

Baba,
Greetings in Christ's name.
Trust God you had a nice journey back to 
    . Praise God. Please send the 
    s number(s). We give thanks to God for His deliverance 
    on them.
We keep thanking God for you that in the 
    fulness of time He will make 
    clear His plans and empower you to follow Him in it - even more 
    than your heart desires. 1John 5: 14 – 15
ALL IS WELL: It's our year of singing His praises

Baba,
Bawo ni o? 
    Hope you are adjusting well to your new station-- 
    whether, food, new friends, etc? 
    May His grace continue to abound towards you.
Just to check on you.

Beloved Friend and Partner,
Greetings. If you have not heard already, we guess you may have 
    been wandering what is the 
    result of our  student visa application. Our request 
    was turned down!
WHAT NEXT YOU MAY ASK? Please see the attached for details of 
    our WAY FORWARD!
PLEASE INTENSIFY PRAYERS FOR US. AND DO NOT GIVE UP ON YOUR PLAN 
    TO GIVE. WE NOW NEED MORE MONEY AT THIS INITIAL STAGE THAN WE 
    INITIALLY THOUGHT OF!
As usual, we shall keep you informed of developments.
Your company has continued to make our faith journey enjoyable. 
    Thanks for being an invaluable part of our lives.
Yours in seeking for ways to serve Him better, 
    
Beloved Friend and Partner,
Greetings. Last week we sent you a special edition of our 
    Newsletter. Hope you were able to download it and enjoyed reading 
    it?
The attached is a further updates about us—especially of the 
    boys and our proposed NEW BEGINNING. The 30 working days of our 
    visa application processing by the  Embassy expires 
    this week. We hope to have result of our visa application by the 
    end of this week. We continue to covet your earnest prayers for a 
    favorable response.
Your company has continued to make our faith journey enjoyable. 
    Thanks for being an invaluable part of our lives.
Yours in seeking for ways to serve Him better, 
    
