Dear Friends,
 and I send you greetings from 
     , . You 
    wonder what we are doing in  at this 
    time. I actually left  on May 7th to 
    go to , . 
    You are aware of the Jesus Film follow-up video series that we have 
    been working on for a while. The village episodes are being filmed 
    in a village called  just outside 
    . I was with them for 10 days and I 
    saw the Lord manifest Himself in several ways. 
     , 
    the Nigerian scriptwriter was there most of the time I was there. 
    The director is a professional who understood well what we wanted, 
    the producer was quite good and the actors were professionals. The 
    series will be excellent not only for follow-up of new believers 
    but will help any Christian to get grounded in their faith and be 
    prepared to help others. They are also quite entertaining.
I flew from  to 
     in the morning of May 18th and 
     joined me here the following day. 
    We have been in the  regional conference with other 
    leaders from all over Africa and the Middle East, preparing 
    ourselves to strategically reach Africa for Christ. And planning 
    for what we call Vision 2020.
That conference was over yesterday and 
     and I are still in 
    . We are joining with others from 
    , , 
     and different parts of 
     in the African Disciplemakers’ 
    summit. For  and me, our passion for 
    personal ministry is multiplying disciplemaking. We have been doing 
    it in addition to our official assignments and have been 
    encouraging others to do the same. This summit brings 
    disciplemakers from some parts of Africa together in 
     to see how the Lord is bringing 
    spiritual and numerical growth to the Churches in 
     and causing them to become missionary 
    sending churches. We are now in  but 
    in the next few days, we will be on the road. We are travelling up 
    to 400 kilometers into the interior.
Please pray for us.
, for both of us
