Beloved sister,
How are you and the family? How was your easter break and the 
    places you visited. Thanks so much for the card. Our retreat was 
    wonderful, timely and very refreshing. Though the week following 
    has been quiet challenging but we 
    bless the the Lord for everything. 
    He is the sovereign Lord and the Father of all.
I saw your message on my computer sometime last week. I 
    wasn't in the office, by the time I came back you had logged 
    off. Sorry for that.
Express my greetings to every body and have a blessed week.

Big bigger Ore,
Thanks to God your journey was smooth. I am happy to know the 
    children are fine and daddy too. What a re-union! Thank God for His 
    faithfulness.
We sincerely appreciate your kind gesture in giving us your 
    apartment at this time leaving us with the facilities to enjoy. May 
    the good Lord graciously reward you for your love.
We moved into your house last Friday and we are gradually 
    settling down. The children also resumed at the Staff 
    sch. yesterday. I was very busy yesterday 
    with all the placement procedure, books purchase, etc that I could 
    not check my mail early enough to reply you.
I was happy reading through your mail yesterday. You should be 
    speaking German by now.
I hope you have relaxed well.
Sis  called asking me to send the 
    acct no for 
    payment. We wl settle that soon but mind 
    you the thing I bought were just N4,400=.
The Stress management talk was educative. My husband will soon 
    send you the e-copy.
WWF meeting will hold this Friday. I begged to have it postponed 
    'cos of the packing since no other 
    weekend would be ok for my husband and I. We are discussing the 
    topic: "Sexual intimacy: challenges and solutions". We 
    will keep you posted on tips we find helpful (I hope daddy is not 
    reading this mail with you- you wl 
    surelyneed it there.)
Oh! I have to leave for Church now. I will respond to other 
    issues tomorrow.
Miss you ma 
My dear sister,
I am sorry it took me this long to reply. Many many reasons. I 
    am sorry I have not even called. I will please bear with me.
Your daughters came back to  on the 
    12th of this month. They are fine and have 
    acclamatised back. They 
    resumed school on the 15th.
Thank God you enjoyed the first service, it really helps one. I 
    do not know how God does it but there is almost 
    fulness of joy in His presence. 
    I know He will continue to take perfect care of you all.
How are my boys now? Have they started school? How is brother? 
    How are you doing? We miss you dearly over here.
I am still trusting God concerning the postdoc offer. I agree He 
    is faithful.
Have a nice weekend ma, I will keep in touch.
Remain blessed,  
    
My Sister,
Good day Ma. How are you and everybody? Hope you are fast 
    adjusting to the condition of things over there. What of the 
    children's school? I believe it is well with you all in Jesus 
    name. Mrs  sent a text that 
    She has paid the 600,000N in your 
    account at  Bank. We will await further directive from 
    you. I know my uncle is taking good care of you. And you are taking 
    good care of him too. Special greetings to the boys. 
     
i belv 
    u a 
    setling down God will 
    kp u strong 
    & prosperous in d 
    land my love to my sons & 
    yr husband. We 
    pd 600,000 in to yr  
    bank acct on 
    fri 26 .Pls can 
    insruct that 
    d car & d 
    papers be releasd to us my hus wants 
    tyo work on it 
    & take it to  by 
    wed 2nd 
    oct. thk 
    uu we apre 
    u  
    
Good Morning, Sis
How was yesterday service? my computer was infested with virus 
    and had to be formated, it was returned on thursday. We were at 
    your site upper sunday, it needs weeding and we've not seen 
    the person you said will be cutting the grass. It has been a little 
    stressful with some of my staff on leave and sick off, i've 
    also had to travel for workshops from the office, the hostel 
    project too has it's own 
    toilon finances but in all things, 
    God has been sufficient. It has been laid on my heart to exhort you 
    that God has ordain the place and time of our habitation. You are 
    not where you are by chance God knew it long ago and allowed it; He 
    is everywhere for us to reach out for Him though He's not far 
    from us. Acts 17:26-27. Have you been employed? RELAX GOD IS IN 
     
