Boss,
I wish to place it on record that God's grace led me to a 
    decision to submit your van to Mr  
     as you 
    instucted. I handed over the 
    van and all the documents 
    partaining to it to  and 
    three other members of your family on May 23, 2009. I do believe 
    they have reported thus to you. You may please acknowledge receipt 
    of the same.
I am also ready to submit to your proxy the documents of your 
    land with me and and any other essential documents that 
    partain to our personal and 
    business relationship through the years, including all the 
    particulars of , of which you and 
    I were co-directors. The particulars of the Company, including the 
    incorporation certificate, seal, article of association and bank 
    cheque books are ready, if you would let me know who will collect 
    them on your behalf. From my heart, I wish to let you have any 
    thing in my holding which may generate conflict between us in the 
    future. Do please let me know what and to whom you wish them 
    submitted.
I laid claim to a part of the gain from the sale of the 
    vehcleand your land, all of 
    which I handled. But where you think nothing is due to me for my 
    labour, I would bear no grudge but rather wait on God, the actual 
    rewarder to reward me. I therefore wish you to let me know 
    anyother thing of value to you 
    which I am keeping and how you wish me to channel them to you.
Meanwhile, I stand by the account I submitted to you as all I 
    know as the truth and as witnessed by God who we serve. I may not 
    give you cash, not only because I do not have it now but you may 
    demand further clarification where you consider such necessary.
I never could regret my relationship with you. You have been 
    very dear to my heart and I remain very 
    garteful to you. I wish you all the best in life. I pray 
    that God's grace may abound to us so that we do not run the 
    race in vain. May God almighty bless you and your family.

Boss,
I write you in pain as never before. One of those you told how I 
    cheated you called. I was made to understand that that call was in 
    order to forestall the threat you plan to carry out against me, 
    should I fail to right the wrong I have done you. I am not writing 
    so that you would spare me. You may go ahead with the threat, only 
    let it come from you and not from any other.
You were here when your land was sold. You knew I had the cash 
    as you traveled last February. Why didn't you collect the 
    money from me? You trusted I would not cheat you. What happened to 
    that trust in two months? I have turned a robber. Sorry. You may 
    tell anyone you care to tell, I have become a thief. But tell them 
    also that you gave me the documents of your land. Tell them I 
    managed the land for 5 years without asking for a pay. Tell them we 
    have come 33 full years without counting any losses in our 
    relationship. Tell them about your family, down to your father, and 
    me. Tell them we are not friends but brothers. Tell them how much 
    my own family counts on you. Tell them I once broke the law for 
    you.
Tell them how you proposed a car business to me, always assuring 
    me we were in it together. Did you tell them what I went through to 
    clear the cars? Did you tell them you collected the whole money 
    from the sales without telling me my cut?
Did you tell them how often you changed your mind on how to 
    distribute the money from the sale? Did you tell them I did not 
    bother deducting the cost of clearing the cars before giving you 
    all? I never feared you could cheat me, even if you would take all. 
    And for six months, you never cared to ask how I would reimburse 
    the person who raised the money for the clearing? You knew all 
    these when you broadcast that  is 
    keeping your #800,000.00. Did you tell them I had accounted 
    for the money up to #400.000.00? If I deduct the 
    #50,000.00 you asked me to give to my wife and the 
    #100,000.00 I gave the agents clearing your cars, will I 
    still be owing you #800,000.00? You know all this. Why did 
    you say I am owing you #800,000.00? Sorry, you disappoint 
    me. I am owing you #250,000.00.
My heart now loathes your Dodge but I am not letting go of it 
    until I have an alternative. My God will not disappoint me as to 
    keep the van too long. be patient till then.
I wish you to now let me know my share of the Sienna I cleared 
    and sold for you; my share of the #1.15 million. Also let me 
    know my share from the land I managed for these years and sold for 
    you.
As I let go of the Dodge, I will at the same time give you back 
    the documents for your land. From this point, the land is no longer 
    under my custody, not when trust is gone between us.
I wish you all the best.

