No qualms Oga! I think that tomorrow 
    evening will be the best option as I also will be quite busy 
    tomorrow morning. Tomorrow, Tuesday, we've arranged an 
    unofficial Bible group meeting with  
    & 
    's family coming over for a christmas party (
     just as we used to have the 
    tradition) at our place. So, as soon as we are done at about 
    9:30pm, then I'll log-in to skype and we could then chat. I 
    hope tha's ok with 
    you.
Regards from all of us here. Remain in His love! And until 
    tomorrow,
bye.

Oga,
I beg no vex o! I 
    been dey think say I go get time sidon write 
    you abi find time for 
    skype make we talk, but i be like say time just no gree wait for 
    me..... please make you take God mecy pardon me 
    o!
Considering your request I have no objections. Please go ahead 
    and use the e-mails from me for your written data. And as for the 
    spoken data we might just fix an appropriate time to meet on skype 
    and get talking. You are free to use the recordings for your 
    research works with pleasure. I will also try to check out the 
    materials I have on Cds or mp3 files and get them across to you as 
    soon as possible. Is there a deadline....?
Looking forward to hearing from you!
God bless! Bye

Oga, Compliments of the seasons in the 
    unfailing grace and love of our Saviour Jesus Christ. Sorry indeed 
    that I have not been able to write for 
    w few weeks now. In fact I wanted to reply 
    immeiately to your last mail 
    - in which you forwarded a message, but as it turned out I 
    haven't been able until now.. 
    First of all, thanks for that Word. It was a true blessing.
By his grace we are all doing fine and the Lord has been 
    faithfull. All is well. 
    It's just that god has poured such wonderful 
    showrs of blessings upon us, 
    such that we are simply trusting Him for grace to 
    cathc up with time.... but we are 
    truely grateful 
    our Papa wey dey for 
    Heaven Yonder... Im blessing na waya o!
We are getting adjusted. The Fellowship is going on LIVE! We 
    meet as usual and believe God for other men of like passions. 
    Please keep on praying for us. greetings from all of us.
I forgot to inform you earlier in my previous mails that I have 
    collected the things you kept for me at 
    's place. Thank you very much 
    indeed. And we have decided to give 800 zl for the PC, 
    I hope say we no 
    under-estimate the things. If you 
    agreee to that sum then it stands 
    that you have the money with us.
We are praying for you and trust the Lord to make room for you 
    there. Take care and the Lord richly bless you.
Love from the s
Oga I take all body 
    throway salute,
We are doing very fine by the grace of God and we all send our 
    greetings. The church is also fine. I will communicate your love to 
    them all. However, this weekend we are travelling to my in-laws to 
    greet them.
Concerning the new developments on my job... God has been 
    incredibly faithful. So many testimonies already and much more on 
    the way, because God is still at work with us, in us and through 
    us.
As soon as I made up my mind to resign my job I started to take 
    seriously the intension to do 
    a professional career course in an English speaking country - 
    fortunately we had met someone from the USA during one of the 
    missionary outreaches we had in the South of Poland and so far he 
    has been making contacts with his acquaintances and friends who are 
    Veterinarians there to see the possibility of my plans. We have 
    been praying in that respect that God would make a way... so that 
    is a plan in the pipeline.
Next step was to consider earning a livelihood for 
    'survival' while I am thinking up solutions for one 
    professional work or the other. So I contacted an acquaintance and 
    I found out that there was still the vacancy you left at SOCRATES 
    Language School in . I approached the 
    Lady and she wanted to hire me but on a job agreement that excludes 
    welfare insurances i.e. umowa 
    odzelo - well for me that wasn't good enough 
    because it means a discontinuity of my previous insurances. We 
    decided with my wife and concluded it was better to set up our own 
    company so that it enables me to pay my own 
    insurrances, which means that 
    the employer is bound by law to pay me a full
    BRUTTO ( gross) salary and I am 
    responsible to continue the payment of my own 
    insurrances. This was a good 
    decision but we couldn't start a company together as a couple 
    since at that moment one of us 
    wasnt employed.
So I decided to start the company in my own name. We went to the 
    Immigration office to check the laws and they said I was qualified 
    to have a private company since I had my Karta 
    Osiedlenie ( i.e. Permanent 
    residency permit), although I still needed NOSTRIFICATION and 
    CITIZENSHIP to be able to start a private veterinary clinic, so I 
    have started a language school called CENTRUM 
    JEZYKOWE "GO 4 
    IT". The final documentations are underway by His grace and we 
    are finding favour all the way. Now I have a lot of prospective 
    students already. So what this means is that I could work at 
    Socrates in the evenings and still have a few free hours with 
    private students. And I could present my employer or clients with 
    invoices. But the goodnews still remain my brother. According to 
    Polish Law I, as a first-timer company owner, am entitled to pay 
    only 1/3 of insurrances for 
    the first 2 years of the life of the company. Goodnews indeed as 
    that also maximamises my 
    profit and capital investment. It's a new leaf the Lord has 
    turned for me in Poland.
In order not to lose contact with my profession while I am 
    planning for the future and waiting for my nostrification I have 
    decided to consider any small veterinary practice where I could 
    just keep in touch with the profession and also to be sure that 
    whenever I will require a testimonial of practice I could ask a 
    doctor to sign on my behalf. Sometimes it is required that one has 
    a minimum requiremnet of 
    practice experience in the country of intended nostrification. So 
    to this effect I contacted a clinic and am due for an interview on 
    Monday at 10 am. Please pray also on my behalf for favour.
On the spiritual front, similarly, God has been doing wonders. 
    We have started meeting in Cafe Betty on Saturdays 
    @ 4 pm. Our website is already under construction and God is 
    giving us great ideas. We trust Him. And as the development 
    progresses you shall be informed. Right now we, indeed and more 
    than ever, covet your prayers on all fronts.
Please find attached, a few files of the materials you requested 
    for and others will come by post to the address you sent as soon as 
    possible.
We love you and are praying for you as well. God is indeed 
    faithful. Our regards also to your family back home. 
    Shalom!!!!!!!!
 & 
    
Oga we kamkpe, God 
    dey bless us yanfu- yanfu. By God's grace I 
    will collect all the necessary material and send them to you. But 
    I've just realized that it might be better by post since the 
    files may be to too heavy to go 
    through the web via e-mail. In that case, you may have to send me 
    your contact postal address as soon as possible.
The latest news, however, is that I decided to resign from my 
    job at the veterinary clinic. I could no longer 
    bare with their crooked decisions 
    and ways of doing things and moreso I was convinced God wanted me 
    to put in my resignation. For now I am looking up to God for new 
    possibilities and I trust that His help is right on the way.
We are fine and doing well by His grace. Our love to you and we 
    wish you all the best out there. God is with you and He will surely 
    make room for you in Germany.
Remain blessed and focussed.
Maranatha!!!
The s
My Oga,
Thank you very much for your 
    mail.We have more or less been on the road for most of the 
    last 3 weeks just having a few days interval at work and then back 
    on the roads again. At the moment we are in Beskida South of Poland 
    working with some American Missionaries out there reaching out to 
    the Roma people (Gypsie as they are more often known), working as 
    translators.
All of us dey forward 
    march our greeting come your side for yonder 
    there... my wife & 
    children all dey salute 
    you yanfu yanfu! 
    We dey miss you too and 
    constant constant we dey pray God make Him take sweep comot for 
    road every doti wey dey for road as you do the 
    documentation. 
    God dey your side 
    powerfully.As you settle down i go fine! Isaiah 
    55;12
By His grace we are trusting the Lord for a more concrete work 
    on the vision. As I mentioned earlier concerning the 
    suituable venue, as soon as we 
    return to Poznan I will make sure that it's ironed out. 
    Although I have talked with the daughter of the owner of the 
    restaurant we talked about and hopefully we might be given access 
    to the place even on saturdays though they 
    fuction only on Mon-Fri.
Since our last meeting together with 
     we also haven't met at all, 
    just been in touch by telephone. She took a few days of holiday and 
    has been travelling around Poland especially at the weekends such 
    that for a while now she hasn't been in church services. So I 
    hope to talk with her as soon as we all get back to Poznan.
Beloved we are praying for you and trust to Lord for all the 
    best. Take care and our best regards also to your family back home 
    in Nigeria. We love you dearly.
Thanks also for the remider 
    about the PC documents from your neighbour, I'll do that as 
    soon we get back. Take care.
From all the s
Poland.
