Hello <>
I read your last mail the third time running, today... you know 
    I find it more cumbersome to understand messages in the language in 
    which you wrote that mail. I know I've just given you 
    something to talk about, so fire on.
Perhaps I've lost my sense of speech 
    cos of the on going strike. Nothing to talk about, I 
    suppose. So how many millions were you paid back home. I finally 
    got reimbursed by . So, hope your 
    projeccts are going on 
    smoothly. Strike is still on. Talk some more later, if I do not 
    lose my sense of speech completely before I read from you again. 
    All the best always.
Regards,

Dear Mr. ,
You have my permission to make use of 
    exerpts from my use of 
    Engllish as corpus for your work 
    on Nigerian English.
Sincerely,
Mrs <>< 
    >.
Hello Sir,
I hope you're fine and catching up with preparations for 
    your exams. I hope the cold is not unbearable.
I got invited for that summer programme in 
    Lodon 
    ,but got no scholarship. I can't fund it.
By the way,preparations are being 
    made to pay the long awaited monetisation arears. Since it's 
    by e-payment,I suppose your account 
    will be credited.I'm writing 
    from . Nothing to scream about yet 
    .I'll keep you posted 
    .Cheers.
Sincerely,

Hello Sir,
I only just succeeded in using the link you sent me about the 3L 
    Summer school billed for London. I've also sent a reference 
    form to your box for filling and sending.
Tommorow, August 15th is 
    deadline. Pls, oblige me. I'll reach 
    you. Have you applied. Thanks a lot for the links.
Regards,

Hello Sir,
Compliments of the season to you 
    .How are you keeping back in ? 
    Will your family have the 
    priviledge of your 
    presesnce this yuletide? Hope all is well with you.
I badan is yet to come to 
    terms with the fact that I've come of age. As for me I 
    won't get tired of waiting for them, 
    cos I know it's a reality they'll have to face, 
    sooner than they think. So I'm waiting.
Pity, I couldn't make CLAN this time. I look forward to the 
    next meet.
     and  
    are just as usual. All are hoping to survive. Wish you the best 
    alaways. Cheers.
Regards,

Hello Sir,
Goodmorning Nigerian 
    time. Sorry it's been so busy, I couldn't write a reply 
    to your mail before now. Even this is not much of a reply as I 
    won't be able to respond to all the issues raised.
Monetisation is on hold. No payments have been made yet...trust 
    FGN. First semester exams are on, ASSU is threatening a major 
    strike as from the 22nd June, - nothing to do with monetisation - 
    so the goal is to conclude exams before then.
I suppose your exams are well under way, so I won't trouble 
    your noble head. I'll be in touch. All the best and CHEERS.
Sincerely'

Dear Sir,
I thank you for your mails, and for ever again keeping me 
    abreast of happenings in Linguistics. Concerning the workshop on 
    phonology you mentioned, I doubt if I want to venture out again 
    untill I see the U.I. project to a logical conclusion. ASSU is right now rounding off 
    a warning strike, during which time my daughter was delivered of a 
    baby girl - her first child, my first grandchild, and my 
    mother's first great grandchild. See, one's not getting 
    any younger.
I also got an invitation from Prof. < 
    > to help source young Ph.D students willing to spend one year in Germany. I'll give 
    < > that information. 
    So I just 
    dey. I'm writing you from The Lagos State 
    University Teaching Hospital, where my daughter had her baby. 
    I'm due back in  early next week, 
    when the strike will end and preparations for exams commence. 
    Meanwhile, did I tell you I'm the new exams officer - your 
    prayers came to pass, didn't they. I told you a lot was 
    happening, and that's some of it. We're struggling to 
    clear up a lot of mess.
So long Sir. I'll keep in touch. Meanwhile, listen to the 
    advice of the latest grandma on the Black continent, and remain 
    steadfast. I'll be in touch.
Sincerely,
<>,
Dear ,
I read your reply to my last mail. The fact about your salary 
    was news to me. I'm sorry. I should however think that 
    you'll benefit from the package I talked about as it's a 
    back log thing. I'll make enquiries along the lines you have 
    stated and feed you back.
Meanwhile, remain as strong, steadfast and undaunted as I know 
    you to be. I'm certain you'll pull through. Things are 
    happening back here in Nigeria,  and 
    the department. I'll let you on as they unfold. I'm 
    watching Ibadan closely. Dr. <
    > sends warm greetings. 
     still has not and did not 
    reimburse me for all kinds of administrative excuses. I'll 
    keep in touch.Cheers.
Sincerely,

Dear ,
How are you? I hope am allowed to say, " long time 
    no hear ." I really hope you're fine, body and 
    soul. I found some time to take a breath and thought I could get in 
    touch with you. How's  treating 
    you, and how're you treating . I 
    really wish to read from you.
There's an issue I've avoided raising with you since 
    our return from , which I now feel 
    urged to mention. Soon after return from 
    , I received a mail to the effect 
    that I had reimbursement to collect. I was requested to send 
    originals of my receipts and account number and other information. 
    All this took about two to three months. The mails were 
    singned by one < 
    >. The receipt of my documents 
    was acknowledged, and I was 
    assurred that I would receive 
    re-embursed in the shortest time possible.
Till date, I've not received any further communication on 
    the matter. I didn't think it proper to send a reminder. But I 
    wondered whether you were communicated as well, and thought I could 
    ask you. I would like to know your thoughts on the matter, and if 
    there's anything I should know, I trust you'ld inform 
    me.
I believe you get word regularly from your family. I wish you 
    strength as you rough it out over there, and look forward to seeing 
    you again. <> and I truly 
    miss your presence. Please, be strong........for everyone and for 
    the good. Bye.
Sicerely yours.

