Dear Jeje,
It still feels a little strange to be writing to you 
    posthumously and in such a public place but I am getting used to 
    this - our personal will always be political. But what I find so 
    reassuring is that we can still communicate, and whenever we talk 
    the great puzzle that is Ken Saro-Wiwa becomes a little clearer. 
    Ken Saro-Wiwa has many important components but your letters, your 
    books, the insights and the values they contain makes the job that 
    little bit easier.
For sure, it is a politically charged legacy but not the least 
    of it for me is the very personal need to finally lay your body to 
    rest. I guess you knew that when you wrote: On the Death 
    of Ken Saro-Wiwa and predicted that the goons would deny 
    you 'six feet of earth'. I think more people should read 
    you because your words, your life and death are pregnant with so 
    much political meaning and have so often proved to be eerily 
    prophetic.
Your death should, in retrospect, have been a salutary lesson in 
    what happens when corporations rule our world; but few people 
    really understood the significance of what happened on 10th 
    November 1995 - The Times described your 
    execution as a 'cautionary tale of the 20th century' and 
    your friend, Chuks Illoegbunam, posed and answered his own question 
    in the London Guardian: 'what does Ken 
    Saro-Wiwa's death mean? It means nothing has changed.'
On reflection, I think Chuks' observation was actually a 
    challenge; to his readers, to everyone who felt profoundly uneasy 
    that a writer, who had prosecuted a just environmental cause on a 
    non-violent platform, could be met with the indifference and 
    hostility of a military dictatorship and a multinational, be 
    sentenced to death by an illegally constituted court and then 
    hanged before a world audience, despite international and 
    diplomatic pleas for his life.
Ten years have passed and, despite all the public outrage and 
    grief, it appears that the world hasn't learned anything from 
    your death: we still live in a world where corporations rank 
    profits well above their value to people and the planet. Our world 
    remains one in which corporations can, and do, routinely get away 
    with murder.
In our small way we continue to try to make them accountable - 
    you will be happy to know that we did manage to bring a suit 
    against Shell in the US for their role in your arrest, detention, 
    trial and execution. They have been charged under the provisions of 
    the Alien Torts Claims Act, the Torture Victim Protection Act, and 
    the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organisations (RICO) Act. And 
    the case will, if nothing else, fulfil your prediction that 
    'Shell is here on trial. The company has, indeed, ducked this 
    particular trial, but its day will surely come.'
Your prediction was uppermost in my mind when the Centre for 
    Constitutional Rights advised that I could bring the multinational 
    to court in the US for their role in your murder. But it has taken 
    eight years of judicial arguments for the US courts to declare that 
    Shell has a case to answer for their role in your murder.
All this legal to-ing and fro-ing reminds me of when you had 
    high hopes that I would pursue a career in law. You know I resisted 
    you for all kinds of reasons, but fundamentally I always thought it 
    was too stereotypical of what every African wants for their 
    children. I wanted to use my imagination but ,having seen and 
    better understood what happened to our people and to you, I now 
    understand that a creative project for an African requires the 
    imaginative use of every tool at our disposal - from business to 
    science to art and to, of course, the law to free us from our 
    predicament.
Our complaint against Shell was filed in 1996. It accuses them 
    of crimes against humanity, torture, summary execution, arbitrary 
    detention, and racketeering, alleging that their actions in Nigeria 
    violate the provisions of the Alien Tort Claims Act.
It took six years of legal arguments and appeals, chiefly over 
    jurisdiction, before Judge Kimba Wood declared in our favour on 28 
    February 2002, acknowledging that there was sufficient evidence of 
    collusion between Shell and the Nigerian military to qualify as 
    racketeering under the RICO Act.
As I write, the case has just finished the discovery stage and, 
    from what I have observed, it seems Shell is more concerned about 
    procedure and technicalities than the substantive allegations. It 
    is sickening that a company with such resources, that is in a 
    'win-win' situation in Nigeria - an organisation that has 
    earned billions from our land - remains unwilling to take 
    responsibility for its actions and is trying to portray itself as 
    an innocent bystander and even victim of unscrupulous, black 
    Africans. Poor little rich Shell!
What really sticks in the craw is that last year they were found 
    guilty of misrepresenting then- proven 
    reserves by as much as four billion barrels - in effect, selling a 
    false prospectus to shareholders. You won't be surprised that 
    much of the scandal happened within Shell's Nigerian 
    subsidiary. When the Chairman of Shell International, Sir Philip 
    Watts, -yes the same Philip Watts who was in charge of Shell 
    Nigeria when they had you locked you up - resigned or was sacked 
    (with a six figure bonus for his sins). The New York stock exchange 
    responded swiftly and fined Shell. And, within a few days of the 
    scandal breaking, those who had bought Shell stock on a false 
    prospectus were busy firing lawsuits against the company. The 
    market moves swiftly to protect investors yet when the same 
    organization violates human rights and destroys the environment, it 
    can take a generation to get redress.
That's the world your grandchildren will grow up in, and 
    there are times when I think it is better you left this world 
    behind. But it could have been so different couldn't it?
I remember how excited you were when the Berlin Wall came down 
    in 1989. I remember you saw it as an opportunity for our people 
    finally to stand up for our rights because the world was 
    encouraging minorities, especially in Eastern Europe, to stand up 
    for theirs. You wrote that if it was good for the former countries 
    of the Soviet Union, it was surely good for communities like the 
    Ogoni. Trapped in post-colonial nation-states that cheated 
    minorities like the Ogoni of our right to self-determination, no 
    longer would African people be treated as strategic pawns in Cold 
    War chess games, and we would benefit from the so-called peace 
    dividend.
I remember those days too: it was a time when environmental 
    awareness was high on the public agenda in the West, and the Second 
    Earth Summit in Rio confirmed that a critical mass was building 
    behind a desire to build a kinder, gentler world. Capitalism had 
    overcome socialism and some people were even suggesting it was the 
    end of history.
Imagine that ten years after the triumphalism of the West, we 
    had apparently squandered the peace dividend, and there were 
    anti-capitalism riots in Seattle, and the newspapers were full of 
    headlines like 'capitalism in crisis'.
When I ask myself what went wrong, I think back to your murder, 
    coming as it did in between the collapse of the Soviet Union and 
    the Seattle riots. Looking back, your killing merely proved that 
    unrestrained capitalism did not deliver higher standards of living 
    for everyone, but actually contributed to greater inequalities of 
    wealth, attendant public disorder and greater levels of human 
    insecurity. The first Gulf War (1991) had already indicated that 
    the New World Order was not new but reactionary; one that would go 
    to any lengths to eliminate anything or anyone who threatened the 
    status quo in the supply of energy. Your murder 
    merely ratified that the old world order was still very much in 
    business.
The brazenness of your death tempered the advance and spawned a 
    new guilt industry - Corporate Social Responsibility. The notion 
    that, left to their own devices, corporations will act as good 
    corporate citizens, is an interesting one, not least because while 
    CSR was being loudly trumpeted, expensively advertised and propped 
    up by an artifice of voluntary codes and offered as a sap to its 
    critics, corporations were busy showing their true hand by working 
    through GATT negotiations, trying to install the Multilateral 
    Agreement on Investment (MAI) and, subsequently, through the 
    undemocratic offices of the WTO.
The corporate agenda has a bewildering array of blunt 
    international instruments, organisations and scholarship to advance 
    and promote its cause. And yet, despite their supposedly good 
    intentions expressed in the form of scholarships, grants, 
    foundations and other PR activities, the world gets poorer as they 
    pursue their real objectives: ever greater corporate wealth while 
    the gap between the rich and poor is widening, wealth is being 
    concentrated in ever-decreasing circles by the dictates of a 
    commercial agenda that is self-serving and socially divisive.
Right now, we are in the middle of yet another expensive and 
    troubling conflict in the Gulf. Lives are being lost daily in Iraq, 
    which has been occupied on the pretext of something called the 
    'axis of evil' - a phrase which most people are now 
    slowly coming to realise is really about access to oil. Because, 
    since George Bush came to power - no, not the father but the son - 
    the top five companies in the US have made $250 billion in clear 
    profits. Imagine that - all the while the US has racked up record 
    deficits to fight something called the 'War on 
    Terrorism'. I won't bore you with the connections between 
    Iraq and the War on Terrorism, but the shorthand of it goes 
    something like this: 9-11= oil.
