Dianyi,
I am delighted to be part of your success, no matter how small. 
    Please feel free to use our correspondences or any other info you 
    may need from me. You have my permission.
Cheers

Pse: 
    Biko echefukwala izitere 
    m information 
    gbasara journals 
    ebe m ga- apublish papers 
    m. Sendie ya 
    taata
Nna a, kedu maka how far? 
    you wouldn't kill me for not 
    writing all this while, wud you? Believe 
    me, no be my 
    fault, though to some extent it is. 
    Kedu maka ndi obodo 
    unu that side? As for here, economic melt down is 
    melting a lot of people. I hope Jehovah God is keeping you safe 
    from the kind of fuel and other scarcities that have become 
    Nigeria's other name. You 
    dont want to be here at this point in time 
    ,trust me.There is politics now 
    everywhere, including on campus. 
    Ndi obodo a si na ha ga-aburiri VC,or else...And 
    the chairman of council has been bought over with twenty million! 
    So,if you are Igbo and you love your life, 
    I were nwayo tinye mma gi 
    n'obo,gba nkiti. The university atmosphere is 
    as calm as the grave yard. The watchword is trust nobody, 
    talk to nobody. When are you coming home?
<> uwa niile 
    na-atu egwu.
this is the second time i am 
    writing this letter today.after the first one 
    they started looking for their server before 
    i could send it and I lost that one. 
    How you 
    dey and have you started your work? 
    have you heard from the bank yet? 
    If not I think what you suggested might be the ultimate solution. 
    you send the letter to me and 
    i will deliver it to the bank and 
    follow it up to make sure they dispatch it on time 
    .As for 
     ,I 
    finally got Bro < 
    > on fone yesterday and he said 
    his fone was stolen. 
    the kids are ok and will vacate on the 5th of april. the university 
    journal is finally out. your copy with the 
    offprints are with me. I think by the grace of God I am ready for 
    SL come october.That is if <> 
    and < > do not come up with 
    another trick.But God will lay an ambush for 
    them this time round.
I think its better I end it here before they start looking for 
    their server again.We 
    shallhu.

 Kwenu!
I was on location throughout last week and could not respond to 
    your mail until now, after my 5-6 lecture. 
    Kedukwanu maka how 
    far? Let me start with the Igbo program. You know the problems the 
    Edo program has been having.You admit 
    an Esan person because his name sounds Edo only for the person to 
    ask for a transfer later. moreover,you know 
    when it comes to the nitty gritty one needs to have done Igbo at 
    the secondary level to be able to cope.It is 
    not, in my opinion, advisable to just use proficiency for admission 
    .That would create problems for us in 
    the future. Have you forgotten the kinds of graduates the Edo 
    program has been turning out? Moreover if Edo requires only 
    proficiency in the language, it is understandable because Edo is 
    not offered at the secondary level so the issue of credit or pass 
    at that level cannot arise. What is more, can you imagine teaching 
    Igbo to those born at Lagos or Kano who have never truly spoken 
    Igbo but who are admitted into the program just because their name 
    sounds Igbo? Or what do you tell a < 
    > 
     > from Benue, or < >< 
    > from Cross River who may be 
    admitted into Igbo because their names sound Igbo? I have never 
    bought into the proficiency thing from the word go. But if it makes 
    you feel better, I did not influence the admission in any way. I 
    think Senate insisted on credit for admission into the program (I 
    am not sure of this). All I have said are my personal opinion.
I am sure that you heard that < 
    >'s boy < 
    > died and resurrected (not after 
    three days, anyway). Today it's < 
    > that has been flown abroad for 
    surgery. Who says Nigeria is not an exciting place to live? Have 
    you got the mail from <> of 
    UBA? I must confess I have not asked him of late since I came back 
    from location and right now, My 
    phones are FILLED with credit.
Please let me end it here and go and eat. I am now the only 
    person left in the Department or even the faculty building at 
    6.55 pm. Ka chi 
    fo.

Oga m,kedu maka 
    how far? The people at  are fine. 
    Called them this morning and they are doing 
    great.As for  
    ,I lost a first cousin yesterday at a 
    rather young age .She should be in 
    her very early 50s and was the last daughter of my father's 
    elder sister .Collapsed and died on 
    her way to the market.Before that I 
    was billed to travel home next weekend for the burial of my 
    father's last survival sister who packed up in December at 
    almost a hundred years .My 
    cousin's burial has not been fixed.
The Igbo program is doing alright 
    .They are about 9 so far.there are 2 
    courses for this semester,one of 
    which they are taking in Social Sciences. I teach the other one, 
    altogether teaching 5 courses, supervising 17 
    long essays,advising 300 level academically 
    plus including complying their results and 
    calculatingtheir GPAs. 
    Add to that the fact that I am now the 
    Departmental Exam officer as well as the Faculty 
    Rep in the CED course offered in 
    Social Sciences, and you have a perfect definition of a man who 
    leaves home in the morning and does not get home until well after 7 
    in the evening. And do you know who the co-ordinator of the CED is? 
    <  >< 
    >! Do I still have to tell you 
    that I need your prayers? None of the candidates is from Delta 
    because credit in Igbo was a factor in the admission. No new 
    lecturers.Your oga has not made his 
    feeling known to me but I know he will be particularly distressed 
    because NO CANDIDATE was admitted for Edo.
Professor <>, ex-dean of Social Sciences was 
    accused of plegiarism and 
    invited to appear before a panel 
    .Rather than appear he wrote a booklet accusing the 
    VC of tribal persecution. 
    He has since been suspended and he appealed 
    to the one who eats okpa ewu. That one 
    invited the VC and arranged < 
    >< 
    >'s thugs (No 
    Exaggeration) to waylay the 
    VC. Fortunately he did not 
    travel in his official vehicle but was riding with someone 
    else.They didn't know when he passed but later trailed him to 
    the palace where theota okpa ewu accused 
    the VC of marginalising Benin 
    people. He ordered the Vc to 
    reinstate <> and < 
    > with immediately effected. 
    They are yet to be reinstated.I have 
    it on good authority that the baboon in Abuja has got the news and 
    directed that <> be dismissed 
    .The 
    VC however insists that the law must take its course. < 
    > has gone to court and the ota okpa 
    ewu has requested the Chancellor,the olowo of 
     to intervene. Uneasy calm rules the 
    university now and every Benin student now believes that the Igbo 
    are dominating them. Everything is at a standstill 
    ,including convocation 
    .Pray that you meet the university in 
    one piece when you come back.Will 
    call < > later.

I huna ihe Chukwu 
    na-eme?
Never, put your banana in the refrigerator!!!
This is interesting.
After reading this, you'll never look at a banana in the 
    same way again.
