Kaa Sa,
Were you asking for permission to quote me in your word bank? 
    Here you have it. I hold no patent for most of the words I use. But 
    in case of litigation, you are on your own. Words here are like the 
    free air, enjoy the much you care to. I am also speaking 
    onbehalf of my good 
    friends.
Did you get the point I tried to make last night? Sound 
    reasoning tells me to chose death if it is your friend that shares 
    life. But the other side of me cries against looking the other way 
    when I am sure that that would mean some loss to him. 
    , when will this battle, this crisis 
    of belief, be over?
How is ? One good thing is that I 
    can boldly tell our people na nwa 
    nnem aga-ala Ala Bekee. You are there now. Enjoy 
    yourself.
His grace will not allow you to fail

Boy,
Your mail only made me 
    remeber how much of me you don't know. I am a complete 
    home boy. That is why I thought that America noo 
    n'uzo Europe? Two of them owugh Ala 
    Bekee?
My humble idea was that your Daily Guide would meet you with 
    speed if given to the s. Sorry.
School. I won't call it biting more than one could chew. 
    God is helping us. The trouble is money and that I know you 
    don't have now.
The prospect is much, if only we could get the means to prepare 
    for September, That is just what we 
    are struggling to do. The spiritual battle invoved in it can 
    mait for another mail. Some people 
    think that education is theirtuff. 
    They are ready to fight you till you forget your name.
It has not been easy.

Kaa Sa,
How is it withyou and all 
    this long silence? I trust you are keeping on. You must have 
    received the Daily Guide by now and stopped taking expired drug.
    .
How are you managing financially? Please talk so that my wife 
    will know that you are alive. She is so concerned about you that I 
    am getting jealous, not when you refused to contribute money in 
    paying her bride price. Please talk.
We are rest assured that He who has led you this far will not 
    abandon you half way. Your troubles will be doubly rewarded.
May we hear from you.

You are welcome back!
I have gone to my mail but could not see the mail you mentioned 
    in your text. Wherever it is, be assured that yiou are not forgotten, nor ever could be.
The pressure of living often hits harder than 
    ne 
    repares for.
The Day-Care has taken its toll. It leaves nothing to feed those 
    I have to care for at home.Lagos State keeps 
    raising the bar. I guess we need prayers more than before.
Thank God for my wife's determination. I envy her 
    courage.
How is your end? Please keep on keeping on as the dawn is nearer 
    than when you started. You shall definitely overcome.
We are here to celebrate you.
Let me hear from you, please.
The s left here last week 
    Monday. We enjoyed their visit, only it was too short.
God bless you.Kaa.

Mazi,
Kosi rara. 
    Kama ima na onye ara si onabu ya 
    choo ikwu ozo, ozo abata ya n'onu. Ma Jehova na adi ndu. Egwu 
    adighi at all.
We hope the primary school will take off this September. That is 
    keeping us on our toes. Our little 
    strenght is long spent and we are counting on nothing other 
    than His grace. That one, you taught us, never fails. That is our 
    only hope. If it fails, be sure we shall fail, otherwise, no 
    shaking.
We are no longer afraid of owing, if only we see where to borrow.
    We are a few hundreds of thousands from 
    paying up for the accommodation, then furnishing the place to make 
    it ready for September. Of course, there will be Holiday 
    caoching there, to sensitize 
    the area. Your part is to keep praying for us. After all, you 
    talked me into agreeing with my wife to begin.
Now, I am sure that you will survive, having come this far. 
    Kama, mee kam mara otu gi na 
    project si adoga.
Jisieike. Onye mmeri ka i 
    bu.

,
Thanks for your mail, a 
    succure to my thirsty soul. I was just beginning to wonder 
    that your lips were too tight, not minding the state of your purse 
    which you already mentioned. Frankly, I was beginning to think you 
    had started avoiding the rouge brother, if at all he ever was one. 
    I feared you might not wish him to corrupt you with the wicked 
    virus. Sure, I am alive, an assurance that there is hope of 
    survival. One day, we shall tell the story of how we overcome; 
    assuming we understand it enough to tell the story.
How are you? Believe God, it is well. It is not over yet.

