CONSTITUTION OF ALL SAINTS' CHAPEL UNIVERSITY OF 
    BENIN, BENIN CITY 2009

WHEREAS we Christians belonging to the Protestant Denominations 
    of the University of Benin and its environs are agreed that it is 
    meet, right and a duty to worship in fellowship the Lord God 
    Almighty through His Son, Jesus Christ, for which purpose, the All 
    Saints' Chapel, University of Benin has been established.
AND WHEREAS we acknowledge that in such a Chapel we need to 
    administer our affairs in an orderly, lawful and respectable manner 
    in accordance with God's revealed will in the Holy Bible and 
    in the spirit of tolerance, love and accommodation which is the 
    hallmark of the Protestant tradition; we therefore, in pursuance of 
    these ideals and of the welfare of all persons in the Chapel, on 
    the principle of freedom, equality and justice, do hereby make, 
    enact and give to ourselves this Constitution:
Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1 This Constitution may be cited as Constitution of All 
    Saints' Chapel, University of Benin, Benin City, 2009.
2. This constitution shall come into force on January 1,2009
3.(1) In this Constitution, unless the context otherwise 
    requires or permits, the following words or expressions shall have 
    the following meanings:
(a) Chapel Year shall mean January to December.
(b) Convener shall mean the person who summons a meeting.
(c) Misconduct shall mean any conduct which is prejudicial to 
    the good name or reputation of the Chapel or which undermines the 
    proper administration of the business of the Chapel. Misconduct 
    shall include corruption, dishonesty, stealing, adultery, 
    embezzlement, assault, false claims against the Chapel slander, 
    negligence of duty, suppression of information, falsification, or 
    unauthorised destruction of accounts or records.
(d) Priest shall mean a trained and ordained Minister of God.
(e) Protestant Denomination shall be understood as all Christian 
    communions not belonging to the Roman Catholic Church.
(f) Senior Member shall mean a member who is thirty years or 
    more in age.
(g) University shall mean University of Benin, Benin City, 
    Nigeria.
(2) In this Constitution, words importing the masculine gender 
    shall include the feminine gender.
The aims and objectives of the Chapel shall be to:
(a) provide a forum for the corporate participation of 
    Christians in divine worship in the University- of Benin;
(b) promote and entrench the ideals of practical Christian 
    living as enunciated by our Lord Jesus Christ;
(c) foster an attitude of fervent study of the Bible and a habit 
    of seeking, searching for and understanding the Word of God through 
    the organisation of Christian fellowship meetings; and
(d) engage in the work of evangelism and discipleship within and 
    outside the university.
5 The Chapel shall be named, known and addressed as All 
    Saints' Chapel, University of Benin, Benin City, (hereinafter 
    referred to as "the Chapel".) Branches at University of 
    Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) and Ekehuan Campus are to be known 
    as UBTH Worship Centre and Ekehuan Campus Branch respectively.
6 Membership of the Chapel shall consist of individuals who 
    personally, willingly and by conviction accept Jesus Christ as Lord 
    and Saviour. All such members shall have their names registered in 
    the Chapel Register provided:
(a) they pay not less than the amount fixed as Chapel dues; 
    or
(b) they are active in the programmes of the Chapel; or
(c) they pay their tithes regularly.
7 (1) The Chapel Services shall be open to all members of the 
    public.
(2) All communicants of the Protestant Denomination are welcome 
    to partake of the Holy Communion.
8 Members shall faithfully perform their spiritual, physical, 
    moral and financial duties and obligations to the Chapel.
Chapter II
CONGREGATION
There shall be a Chapel Congregation which shall consist of 
    registered members.
0 The Congregation shall:
(a) be the supreme governing body of the Chapel;
(b) have powers to make policies and regulations for the 
    Chapel;
(c) have powers to give necessary directives to any officer or 
    organ of the Chapel pursuant to the provisions of this 
    Constitution;
(d) elect members of the Chapel Committee and such members of 
    sub-committees as provided for in this Constitution except the 
    Chaplain and the Assistant Chaplain(s); and
(e) receive and consider Annual Reports of the Chairman, 
    Secretary, Treasurer and Auditor.
1 There shall be three types of meetings:
(a) A general meeting to be known as the Annual Meeting of 
    Congregation (AMC) which shall be held once in every 12 (twelve) 
    months normally in the month of February but not exceeding six 
    weeks thereafter. The AMC shall:
(i) receive and consider annual reports of the Chairman, 
    Secretary, Treasurer and the External Auditor; and
(ii) elect members of the Chapel Committee except the Chaplain 
    and Assistant Chaplain(s).
(b) Emergency meeting of Congregation which may be summoned by 
    the Chairman as the need arises, at his discretion or by a notice 
    signed by at least 100 members of Congregation served on the 
    Chairman and a copy pasted on the Chapel Notice Board.
(c) An Extraordinary Meeting of Congregation (EMC) shall be 
    summoned by the Chairman of the Caretaker Committee for the purpose 
    of electing a Chapel Committee in the event of its premature 
    dissolution.
12(1) The date, time and agenda of any meeting shall be 
    determined by the convener(s) of the meeting.
(2) All meetings of Congregation shall be held on Sundays within 
    the Chapel premises.
13(1) Notice of the Annual Meeting of Congregation shall be 
    given not less than three consecutive Sundays before the meeting is 
    held.
(2) Notice of an Emergency Meeting of Congregation shall be at 
    the discretion of the convener(s).
(3) Notice of an Extraordinary Meeting of Congregation shall be 
    given not less than two Sundays before the meeting is held.
14 (1) No business shall be transacted at any meeting unless a 
    quorum is formed. Quorum at a Congregation Meeting shall consist of 
    10% of, or 100 registered members, whichever is less.
(2) No business shall be transacted at any Emergency Meeting of 
    Congregation save such as shall have been notified in the notice of 
    the meeting.
(3) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of Congregation 
    except at an Extraordinary meeting. In his absence, the Deputy 
    Chairman shall preside.
(4) Before a motion duly moved and seconded becomes a resolution 
    of the Congregation, it must have received the support of a simple 
    majority of those present. Voting shall be by a show of hands.
(5) In the case of equality of votes, the Chairman of the 
    meeting at which the show of hands takes place shall be entitled to 
    a second or casting vote.
(6) The right to vote and be voted for shall be limited to 
    members only.
Chapter III
CHAPEL COMMITTEE
15 There shall be a body known as the Chapel Committee.
16 The Chapel Committee shall consist of the following:
(a) Chairman, who shall be the Chaplain
(b) Deputy Chairman, who shall be a lay person
(c) Assistant Chaplain(s)
(d) Priest-in-charge, Ekenhuan Campus Branch
(e) All serving priests
(f) Chapel Secretary
(g) Assistant Secretary
(h) Treasurer
(i) Financial Secretary
(j) Assistant Financial Secretary
(k) 2 Assistant Financial Secretaries (students: male and 
    female)
(l) Publicity Secretary
(m) People's Warden
(n) Legal Adviser
(o) Choirmaster
(p) Sunday Bible Study Superintendent
(q) Superintendent of Children's Department
(r) Internal Auditor
(s) Building Sub-Committee Chairman
(t) Harvest Sub-Committee Chairman
(u) 4 members elected from Congregation (2 of whom shall be 
    students)
(v) 2 members elected from 
    Ekehuan Campus congregation
(w) Youths Presidents (Ugbowo and Ekenhuan Campuses)
(x) Immediate past Deputy Chairman and Secretary.
17 Subject to the provisions of Section 10 of this Constitution, 
    the Chapel Committee shall be responsible for the following:
(a) making of rules for the day to day running of the affairs of 
    the Chapel;
(b) collection of revenue, expenditure of money for and on 
    behalf of the Chapel;
(c) over-all control and superintendence of Chapel properties - 
    movable and immovable;
(d) appointment, welfare and discipline of Chapel employees;
(e) co-ordination of the duties and responsibilities of all the 
    sub-committees of the Chapel;
(f) preparation and recommendation of annual budget to 
    Congregation; and
(g) appointment of members of the sub committees of the Chapel, 
    unless otherwise stated in this Constitution.
18 The Chapel Committee shall meet once every month in addition 
    to any other meeting that may be necessary.
19 Quorum shall be one third of the attendance).
20 With the exception of the Chaplain, Assistant Chaplain and 
    Member Priests, members of the Chapel Committee shall be elected by 
    Congregation at the Annual Meeting of Congregation (AMC) and shall 
    hold office for a period of two years, (except the Chairman of the 
    Harvest Subcommittee who shall hold office for one year) but shall 
    thereafter not be eligible for further election to the same office 
    until two years have elapsed following the end of the single 
    term.
21 The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Chapel 
    Committee and the Budget Sub-committee.
22 The Deputy Chairman shall assist the Chairman as appropriate, 
    and act in his place whenever the Chairman is absent or otherwise 
    unable to perform his duties.
23 The Chaplain shall:
(a) give spiritual leadership in the Chapel;
(b) be responsible for the arrangement of divine services in the 
    Chapel and for other uses to which the Chapel may be put;
(c) be responsible for the day to day administration of the 
    Chapel; and
(d) co-ordinate the activities of priests who are members of or 
    associated with the Chapel.
24 The Assistant Chaplain(s) shall assist the Chaplain in the 
    performance of his duties and act for him in his absence except in 
    his capacity as Chairman of Congregation, the Chapel Committee and 
    the Budget Sub-Committee.
25 The Chapel Secretary shall;
(a) serve as Secretary of Congregation, Chapel Committee, Budget 
    Sub- Committe and any other 
    Committee as the Congregation or Chapel Committee may direct; 
    and
(b) summon meetings as directed by the Chairman and take minutes 
    of such meetings.
The Assistant Chapel Secretary shall assist the Chapel Secretary 
    in the performance of his duties and serve as Secretary in his 
    absence.
27 The Treasurer shall:
(a) be responsible for keeping the financial accounts of the 
    Chapel; and
(b) receive all monies accruing to the Chapel from the Financial 
    Secretary and bank same within two (2) days from the date of 
    receipt.
28 The Financial Secretary shall be responsible for:
(a) the receipt of all monies collected at Chapel services and 
    other occasions, and for all dues, levies etc.; and
(b) keeping proper records of all monies collected and shall 
    hand over such monies to the Treasurer not later than 2 days from 
    the date of receipt.
29 The Assistant Financial Secretary shall assist the Financial 
    Secretary in his duties.
30 The Assistant Financial Secretary (Student) shall assist the 
    Financial Secretary particularly in collecting dues, levies, 
    etc. from the students.
31 The Publicity Secretary shall publicize the activities of the 
    Chapel.
32 The People's Warden shall:
(a) represent the congregation in matters affecting the Chapel 
    as the occasion arises;
(b) supervise the Ushers in their functions; and
(c) present the offerings to the officiating priest for 
    blessing.
33 The Legal Adviser shall give legal advice
34 The Choirmaster shall:
(a) be responsible for organizing and maintaining an active 
    choir; and
(b) ensure that all the equipment of the Choir is safe and in 
    good working condition always.
35 Sunday Bible Study Superintendent shall be responsible for 
    the coordination and overall superintendence of Sunday Bible 
    study.
36 Superintendent of Children's Department shall be 
    responsible for the co-ordination and overall superintendence of 
    Children's Department.
37 Serving Priest(s) shall perform any duty or duties that may 
    be assigned to them when the need arises by the Chaplain, Chapel 
    Committee or Congregation.

