NATIONAL BUSINESS AND TECHNICAL EXAMINATIONS 
    BOARD
(NABTEB) 
NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS, 
IKPOBA HILL P.M.B. 1747, BENIN CITY, EDO STATE.
MANUAL FOR STATION OFFICERS
FOR NABTEB CERTIFICATE EXAMINATIONS 
A.        INTRODUCTION
The conduct of public examinations demands high fidelity quality 
    control in order to ensure quality assurance in content and 
    delivery. This comes up at various stages in the examination 
    process, namely during the pre-examination, actual conduct and 
    post-examination activities. 
One of such important stages in the actual process of conducting 
    an examination is at the post of the custodians. 
B.         RATIONALE FOR STATION OFFICERS
At the custodians, question papers and answer scripts are held 
    in trust for examination bodies. If not carefully handled the 
    issuing of question papers and receiving of answer scripts can pose 
    serious threats to the quality of the examinations at this level. 
    
For example, there have been reports of; 
(a) Delay in issuing out question papers by custodians who are 
    very busy with their primary assignments. 
(b) Some custodians being tempted by unscrupulous supervisors to 
    issue out question papers which are not due on the Time Table. 
(c) Failure of custodians and supervisors to faithfully and 
    honestly fill the Movement Form for the collection of question 
    papers and return of answer scripts thereby creating difficulty for 
    the Board in resolving naughty cases where these records are to 
    serve as pointers. 
There is therefore the need to designate a person at each 
    custodian whose duty it is to see to the timely issuance of 
    question papers to and receipt of answer scripts from the 
    supervisors, among other responsibilities. 
For the purpose of NABTEB Certificate Examinations such a person 
    is called a Station Officer. 
(C)           FUNCTIONS OF STATION OFFICERS 
Station Officers are to: 
(1) Issue out question papers to supervisors and receive answer 
    scripts from them. 
(2) Ensure that no supervisor collects question papers earlier 
    than necessary i.e not earlier than one 
    hour before the commencement of the paper. 
(3) Ensure that supervisors submit answer scripts to the 
    custodians not later than one hour after the 
    end of a paper. 
(4) Check and ensure that parcels containing question papers are 
    correct in number and are not tampered with. 
(5) Ensure that answer scripts of each centre are kept in 
    separate bags. 
(6) Ensure that Mark sheets for Practical papers are returned to 
    the Custodian by the supervisor. 
(7) Ensure that all unused parcels of question papers are 
    returned intact to the custodian. 
(8) Ensure that the Movement Book is correctly filled by the 
    Supervisors. 
(9) Make replacement for any absentee supervisor if necessary 
    and contact the Zonal Office or National headquarters immediately. 
    
(10) Check the movement book to ensure that all Mark sheets in 
    respect of the practical question papers collected have been 
    returned.      Where  this   has   not  been   done,   the   
    affected supervisors must be directed to do so. 
(11) Ensure  that  script envelopes   are properly   labeled 
    before accepting them from the Supervisors. 
(12) Ensure that arrangement is made to replace a Supervisor who 
    may wish to discontinue with the supervision. 
(13) Ensure that unused materials are parceled and returned to 
    the Board.
GUIDELINES TO STATION OFFICERS
(1) Question papers are to be released to supervisors 
    not earlier than 1 hour before the 
    commencement of each paper. 
(2) All question papers released to Supervisors must be entered 
    and signed for by the Supervisors in the movement book indicating 
    time and date of collection. 
(3) Station Officers are to use the delivery note with the 
    Custodian to do stock taking of the question papers. 
(4) Station officers should submit a comprehensive report on the 
    station work to Test Administration department not later than 72 
    hours after the completion of the assignment. 
(5) Ensure that supervisors submit their reports and claims on 
    the last day of the examination as directed. 
(6) Ensure that supervisors produce their letters of 
    introduction before commencing official transaction with them. 
(7) Station officers are to report at their respective 
    custodians one and half hours before the commencement of the 
    1st paper of the day.
