Roll of Honours for students
All students are enjoined to strive to be on the Honours Roll. 
    
The details are as follows: 
(i)       The Honours Roll should be at three levels, namely: 
    
(a)       Departmental Honours Roll 
(b)       Provosts/Deans Honours Roll 
(c)       University/Vice-Chancellor's Honours Roll 
(ii)      The beneficiaries must have a minimum CGPA of 4.0 for Departmental Honours Roll, 4.25 for Provost/ Deans 
    Honours Roll and 4.50 for Vice-Chancellor/ University 
    Honours Roll in all the Faculties, except the Faculty of Pharmacy 
    and the College of Health Sciences where the candidates are 
    expected to have a cumulative average of 60% and 62% respectively. 
    
(iii) The beneficiary must maintain this grade annually to 
    continue to enjoy the award. 
(iv) The recommendations must be processed along with the 
    results of Rain Semester examinations. 
(v) The student must be of good conduct.
(vi) He/She must not have outstanding or carry-over courses and 
    must not be repeating the year. 
(vii) No student on Leave of Absence shall enjoy the Annual Roll 
    of Honours Award. 
(viii) No student that has a disciplinary problem shall enjoy 
    the award. 
(ix) The award shall be based on the recommendation of the 
    Departmental Board of Examiners and the Faculty Board of Examiners, 
    while that pertaining to the Vice-Chancellor/University shall be 
    processed through the Committee of Deans. 
(x)       Names of beneficiaries shall be displayed as follows: 
    Departmental Honours - Departmental Notice Board Provost/Deans 
    Honours - Faculty Notice Board Vice-Chancellor/University Honours - 
    Floor 'O' Secretariat Building 
(xi)     Each beneficiary shall be given a certificate. 
6.        Information on facilities
1.        Library
Plan of the Library 
The Library consists of the North and South wings, which are 
    connected by walkways on two levels. 
Membership 
Membership of the Library is available, on completion of a 
    registration card, to all students, members of the senior staff of 
    the University and such other persons as may be determined by the 
    Library Committee or the University Librarian on behalf of it. 
Students are required to renew their registration at the 
    beginning of each academic year. Library Cards and Borrower's 
    Tickets are not transferable; books issued on them remain the 
    responsibility of the person whose name appears on them. 
A Lost Library Card or Borrower's Ticket may be replaced 
    upon submission of a written application. 
The Library Collection
The Hezekiah Olimasanmi Library now contains over 380.000 
    volumes. It consists of two main areas: 
(i)       The Undergraduate Areas and 
(ii)     The Research Areas. 
1. Serials Collection
The Serials Collection consists of:
(i) Current journals, the most current issues of which are 
    shelved in the display section of the Serials Room. 
a. Latest back files, i.e. the latest 9 years of 
    journals which are on open access to registered senior staff and 
    postgraduate students. 
b. Older back files, i.e. journals older than ten 
    years are on closed access to all categories of readers who must 
    obtain and complete request forms at the serials section. 
2. Africana Special Collection
The Africana Special Collection is a collection of rare and 
    other books of primary interest to people whose fields of interest 
    are in African Studies. Staff publications and theses submitted for 
    higher degrees of the University as well as of other Universities 
    are also housed there. The Collection is of closed access. 
3. Documents Collection
The Documents Collection includes official publications ot the 
    Federal Government of Nigeria, the old regional governments, the 
    present state governments and the Federal Capital Territory. It 
    also includes publications of other African governments and 
    international organizations. 
4. Reference Collection
Dictionaries, encyclopedia, handbooks, directories, atlases, 
    University Calendars, etc. are shelved in the Reference 
    Room. Bibliographies, indexes and abstracts are available in the 
    Bibliography Room. Reference books do not ordinarily circulate. 
A newspaper clippings file (post-October 1985) and a vertical 
    file of reprints and other pamphlet type material is kept in the 
    Reference Room. 
5. Reserve Collection
(i)       Day reserve collection
Multiple copies of textbooks, particularly some of those 
    recommended for specific courses, are shelved in the Reserve Books 
    Room on Floor 3 North Wing East. 
(ii)      Two-Hour Reserve
Some other materials, periodical articles in particular, are 
    placed on 2-hour reserve. These may be obtained on request 
    (signature and seal number required) and retained for a period of 
    two hours at a time, subject to renewal, provided other readers 
    have not demanded the materials. 
6.         Recent Accessions
A selection of books added to the Library stock is normally 
    displayed for several days before being put in the main collection. 
    The books may not be borrowed while on display but may be reserved 
    at the Loans Desk. 
Catalogues
A library catalogue is a finding list of books and other 
    materials available in the Library. The following catalogues can be 
    found in the Catalogue Hall: 
(i)       The Author/Title Catalogue 
(it)      The Subject Catalogue 
(iii)     The Shelf List 
(iv)      The Serials Catalogue 
(v)       The Documents Catalogue 
How to Borrow A Book
When you have found the book you want to borrow, you will be 
    required to sign your name and address on the book card provided in 
    duplicate. You must surrender a Borrower's Ticket for each 
    book borrowed. 
When you return a book, you must ensure that you receive your 
    Borrower's Ticket back immediately. 
Reservation
A book can be reserved by filling a reservation slip, in which 
    case, it will not be renewed for the present borrower when returned 
    and, if it is already overdue, it will be recalled at once. 
Inter-Library Loan
If the book you require is not in stock, it is often possible to 
    borrow it from another library. This service is dependent on 
    goodwill and cooperation between libraries, and readers who benefit 
    from it are required to observe the regulations applying to each 
    loan. 
Photocopying Services
Within the limitations imposed by copyright, the library is able 
    to supply readers with photocopies of periodical articles and parts 
    of books at moderate charges. 
Penalties for Overdue or Lost Books
Penalties for overdue books will be imposed as follows:- 
(a)       N5.00 per day for the first 30 days, 
    thereafter, all loan privileges will stop. 
(b)       Books specially recalled by the university Librarian 
    will attract a fine of N 10.00 per day after the third day 
    from the date of recall.
(c)        Books lost or damaged will attract a fine five times 
    the current cost of the books. 
(d)       No student will be allowed to attend the Graduation 
    Ceremony or receive his/her certificate without a clearance 
    certificate from the University Library to the effect that no book 
    or fine is outstanding against him or her. 
Division of Students' Affairs
1.         Guidance and Counseling Unit
The Division of Student Affairs has Professional Counselors who 
    are committed to helping students grow, in self-understanding in 
    the process of integrating their personal and academic experiences. 
    The services are free to students and are confidential (i.e. not used as part of his/her other University records). 
    The services include personal counseling, group counseling, study 
    skills improvement, test anxiety reduction, personal crisis 
    intervention, psychological testing, career and occupational 
    counseling and settlement of grievances between students. Where 
    necessary, consultations are made with campus organizations, 
    specialist and academic Departments, to ensure that students' 
    problems are resolved satisfactorily. 
The Counselors can be contacted in Rooms 9 & 10 of the 
    Division of Student Affairs between 10.00 a.m. 
    and 2.00 p.m. Monday to Friday. 
2. Scholarship and Financial Assistance:
The Division of Students' Affairs serves as a link between 
    students and sponsoring authorities, both within and outside 
    Nigeria. Students are advised to check the Notice Boards in their 
    respective faculties as well as those at the Division of Student 
    Affairs Building for advertisements and other relevant information. 
    
Liaison is also maintained between students and governments at 
    various levels for scholarship and bursaries. 
7. Relevant sections of University Examination 
    Regulations, i.e. 
Registration for University Examinations 
Absence from Examination Examination 
Offences and Penalties 
Registration for University Examination;
(a) A candidate for a University examination must have 
    registered for the courses in the prescribed format not later than 
    the closing date prescribed for registration for such courses. Any 
    candidate who fails to register for courses at the appropriate time 
    as prescribed by Senate will not be allowed to take any examination 
    in such courses. Any examination taken without course registration 
    shall be null and avoid. 
(b) Students who register for courses are committed to the 
    number of units registered for and are expected to take 
    examinations in such courses. If a student failed to take an 
    examination he would be scored 'OF' 
(c) Any student who does not have any course or courses to offer 
    in a particular semester should apply for leave of absence. 
(d) A candidate who has less than 15 units in a particular 
    semester to graduate should apply to his/her Faculty Board for 
    permission to register for less than 15 units. Failure to do so 
    constitutes a breach of regulations, which may result in the 
    non-processing of the candidate's results. 
(e) A candidate who cannot register for courses during the 
    prescribed period for registration because of an illness must 
    ensure that a medical report on his illness is forwarded by him or 
    his parents/sponsors to reach the Dean of his Faculty not later 
    than four weeks after the end of the normal registration period as 
    scheduled in the University Calendar. Such a medical report should 
    be forwarded for authentication by the Director of Medical and 
    Health Services for it to be considered valid. Such a candidate 
    shall be exempted from the penalties of late registration. All 
    applications should be routed through the Head of Department. 
(f) Students must attend a minimum of 75% of course 
    instructions, including lecture, tutorials and practicals where 
    required, to qualify to sit for the examination in any course. 
(g) A candidate for a university examination in a particular 
    degree programme should not be a regular candidate for another 
    degree in this or any other university concurrently. Any candidate 
    so discovered shall forfeit his/her studentship. 
Absence from Examination
Candidates must present themselves at such University 
    examinations for which they have registered. Candidates who fail to 
    do so for reasons other than illness or accident shall be bound by 
    the following regulations 
(a)        Any student who fails to register for courses during 
    one semester without permission should be deemed to have scored 
    "O F" in the minimum number of units required for full 
    time student (i.e. 15 units.) 
(b)       Candidates who registered for courses, attended 
    classes regularly, did all practicals and tests but did not take 
    required Semester examinations should be given a continuous 
    assessment grade in each of the affected courses and a grade of 
    "0" in the examination which they should have taken, but 
    which they did not take. 
(c)       Candidates who have less than 15 units to graduate but 
    who fail to take the required examinations should be deemed to have 
    scored "OF" in the outstanding courses only provided such 
    candidates obtained permission to register for less than 15 
    units.
(d) Any candidate who on account of illness, is absent from a 
    University examination may be permitted by the Senate on the 
    recommendation from the appropriate Faculty Board to present 
    himself for such examination at the next available opportunity 
    provided that: 
(i) A full-time student in the University shall report any case 
    of illness to the University Health Centre at all times.
(ii) When a student falls ill during examinations he should 
    first report to the Director, Medical and Health Services before 
    attending any hospital outside the University. A report of sickness 
    should be made to the Registrar within a week and a medical 
    certificate for validation of his illness within three weeks. 
(iii) When a student falls ill before an examination he shall be 
    under an obligation to send a medical report countersigned by the 
    Director Medical and Health Services within one week of such 
    illness. Any time outside this period, shall be considered on its 
    own merit. 
(iv) The Director of Medical and Health Services should, within 
    48 hours, submit a medical report on a candidate who is ill during 
    an examination and is taken to the Health Centre or referred by it 
    to the hospital for treatment. 
(v) A candidate applying for leave of absence on medical grounds 
    must forward his application together with a medical report to the 
    Dean of his Faculty through his Head of Department. The Medical 
    report must be countersigned by the Director of Medical and Health 
    Sciences. All applications for Leave of Absence must be taken by 
    the appropriate Faculty Board. 

