Guidelines for Authors/ 
    Hinweise fur Autoren
The Editorial Committee of the NATOG-Journal cordially invites 
    authors to send their articles for the next issue. However, we 
    would like to request you to follow our guidelines for publication 
    in preparing your article. 
Your manuscript should be submitted on a floppy disc and an 
    accompanying printout. You should use A4 format (210 mm x 207 mm or 
    8 2 in x 11.6 in). Please, indicate on the floppy disc the 
    type of computer and word processing programme, including version, 
    that you are using, and the file name of your manuscript. The 
    floppy disc will be returned to you as soon as possible. However, 
    we cannot accept liability for manuscripts of floppy discs. 
Your text should be double-spaced or 1.5. with a 
    left margin of 1 inch (2.5 cm) and a right margin for proof 
    marks. 
Quotations in the text should be single-spaced, adding an 
    additional left margin of about 1/2 in (1 cm). 
Book titles as well as important key words should be in italics. 
    Bibliographical references in the text should read like this 
Wie Maier 
    (1982 34f.) 
    sagte 
Wie schon seit langem bekannt 
    ist (Maier 1954:113 117) 
After a quotation (Maier 1984a: 78), the "a" after the 
    year indicates that Maier published another article in 1984 which 
    you are also quoting. Remember to include such letters in your 
    bibliography for easy reference. The last number refers to the 
    page(s). 
Footnotes should not be used for bibliographical references but 
    for additional notes or comments that you want to make. Please use 
    Arabic numbers, raised above the line. The footnote itself should 
    be placed at the bottom of the page. 
Your bibliography (following the text) should be arranged 
    alphabetically and detailed as possible (including the name of the 
    publishing company and/or series title and number) for the benefit 
    of all readers. 
The Editorial Committee of the NATOG-Journal will accept 
    articles in German as well as in English.  It reserves the right to 
    reject or return manuscripts for revision.
Thank you for your co-operation.
