MODERATION EXERCISE
A well conceived test item must pass 2 'tests'
a) the test of expert judgement
b) the test of use
The test of use is the pretest/trial test which is essential to 
    provide considerable information for statistical analysis of data. 
    The "Facility" value and "discrimination" index 
    are the most useful of all the statistics obtainable from this 
    analysis. The use of these statistics in the determination of the 
    specific items to be included in a question paper or be rejected is 
    the act of Moderation or Item 
    analysis. This is a quantitative approach to the 
    evaluation of test items.
On the other hand, the test of expert judgement in a more 
    subjective approach- It is the vetting or shredding of the items. 
    This is a qualitative approach to the act of 
    Moderation.
Criteria to be used in Item Vetting/Shredding:
1. What section of the syllabus does the item test? (Year? 
    topic)
2. What ability/thinking level does the item test? 
    (A/B/C/D/E)
3. Is the language/mathematics/science sound or technically 
    correct? i.e. is the content of the question correct 
    language-wise, etc.
4. Are there clues to the key (examine the length or the clue 
    grammatical inconsistencies, specific determinants or other writing 
    defects),
5. What is the key?
6. Are the detractors plausible?
7. Is there more than one defensible answer?
8. Is it reasonable to expect an average examinee to answer the 
    item in the allotted time.
9. Where appropriate, are the responses in the correct 
    sequences.
10. Can the wording be improved by eliminating unnecessary 
    details, over sophistication, factoring out.
When item vetters have subjected the items to these rigorous 
    examination, the level of acceptability of each item can be 
    determined. If a major amendment is required on an item to enable 
    it meet with the criteria laid down, then that item should be 
    rejected. Where necessary amendments can be made on items that are 
    defective, they should be carried out to make them conform to the 
    prevailing criteria.
Attached herewith is a checklist for vetting and moderating both 
    multiple choice items and essay/practical type items.
- Are options which are names arranged alphabetically?
- Are the options overloaded?
- Are repetitive parts included in the stem?
D. The key
- Does the key answer the questions?
- Does it stand out from the rest?
- Is it the only answer, to the question asked?
- Are there words in the stem that may give out the key?
- Is the key to one item given in another item when both are 
    given in the same test? '
E. Distractors
- Is the distractor plausible or sharp enough?
- Is there any other correct option?
- Does any one of them attract unnecessary attention?
1.3 EDITING ESSAY/PRACTICAL TYPE ITEMS
The following points should be noted when writing 
    Essay/Practical type items:
A. The Question:
(i) Must be within the syllabus.
(ii) Must be concise, clear and unambiguous.
(iii) Should be structured directly so that the candidates do 
    not have to guess.
(iy) If subdivided, should be arranged in logical order.
(v) The number of points for which full marks will be given 
    should be indicated e.g. "State 
    four 
    advantates of" preferable to "Discuss the 
    advantages of"
(vi) Indicate the type of response expected from candidates 
    e.g. calculate, solve, write, draw.
(vii) The length of the answer expected should be indicated in 
    the wording of the question e.g. "List", 
    "Name", "State", suggest few words or brief 
    answers; while 'describe', indicate longer answer.
'Calculate' wants more accurate answers than 
    "Sketch." Words like "write note on." discuss 
    etc. leave the candidates in doubt as to the length and 
    depth of answer required and should normally be avoided.
(viii) The use of the word 'You' should normally be 
    avoided. However, 'on your diagram label... is acceptable.
(ix) Any necessary information should be given in the question 
    rather than in the rubric as candidates will forget e.g. TT is 3.142.
(x) The use of trade names should be avoided.
(xi) Diagrams, symbols, abbreviations, units and terminology 
    used in questions must conform to the current standards 
    abbreviations and conventions in use.
(xii) Adequate time for the average candidate to write the 
    answer to the question.
(xiii) Each questions must be of the same standard as that of 
    other questions if there is a choice.
(xiv) Each question must be moderately difficult, and should be 
    able to separate the very good candidates from the average and the 
    very poor ones.
(xv) Question should not contain anything to give undue 
    advantage to any religious, tribal or ethnic group.
(xvi) Questions should not be expensive to develop - use 
    diagrams if only necessary to clarify the questions.
1.4 THE SOLUTION/MARKING SCHEME:
(i) Solutions and marking schemes must accompany all draft 
    questions.
(ii) Numerical questions should be accompanied with full 
    solutions.
(iii) The marks awarded for each part of the question must be 
    indicated.
(iv) Do not award marks for writing ability, neatness or 
    presentation unless they are essential to the subject being 
    assessed.
2.1 MODERATION OF ESSAY ITEMS:
The Moderating Committee must thoroughly go through each item 
    and the marking scheme to ensure that the:
(i) item is syllabic;
(ii) item is workable and can be completed within the same time 
    given;
(iii) language of the item is within the reach of the majority 
    of the candidates for whom it is meant;
(iv) item is clearly worded and 
    unabiguous;
(v) item is not a verbatim repetition of a past item;
(vi) marking scheme is adequately comprehensive;
(vii) allocation of marks to point is fair to all candidates 
    neither too stingy nor too generous.
Each test item should be amended by the moderators in accordance 
    with i - vii above. Every moderator should reflect all such 
    amendments on his/her copy. Items that are so bad that they cannot 
    be salvaged should be rejected and must be so indicated on every 
    moderator's copy to ensure that they are not selected in error 
    onto the final test paper.
2.2 MODERATION OF OBJECTIVE ITEMS:
Each objective item moderated must ensure that:
(i) item is within the scope of the syllabus;
(ii) the item is clearly worded and unambiguous;
(iii) there is an agreement of the item with the options in 
    tense, preposition and number;
(iv) there is only one key;
(v) all the distractors are plausible and are derivable from 
    possible common errors on the topic;
(vi) the length of the key does not give it out;
(vii) the key is not too frequently placed in any one 
    position;
(viii) the item is testing only one thing at a time;
(ix) the alphabets of the options (A-E) are not used to label 
    appended diagram;
(x) options involving numbers and figures are arranged in either 
    ascending or descending order;
(xi) the item is workable within the time given;
(xii) the item contains no hidden trick.
ITEM EDITING
Items should be edited by subject officer(s) as soon as the 
    items are received from the examiners. An item editor must be a 
    subject expert as well as be familiar with the techniques of item 
    writing.
Items may be accepted, modified, rejected or referred to the 
    writer for amendment.
An item editor edits items to ensure that:
(i) their structure does not contain any mistake and conforms to 
    the principles outlined below;
(ii) their position in the table of specification is adhered 
    to;
(iii) they test the intended ability - Recall, Comprehension, 
    Application, Analysis, Synthesis, Evaluation.
(iv) there is only one correct option (in multiple choice 
    item).
1.2 EDITING MULTIPLE CHOICE ITEMS
A multiple choice item comprises a stem and options. The options 
    comprise plausible distractors and the key. The following points 
    should be considered for editing purposes:
A. The Item As a Whole:
- Is the item testing what it is supposed to test?
- Is there a better way of testing what the item tests?
- Is it within the scope of the syllabus?
- Is it worth asking?
- Is it clearly stated or is it ambiguous for the level of 
    candidates?
- Does the item have the test specification number indicated?
- Does the diagram or graph agree with the stem and options?
- Does the item test too many things at once?
- Are there vague expressions?
- Are there any double negatives?
B. The stem:
- Does the stem clearly define the aim of a specific 
    problems?
- Does it contain 
    unneccessary information or does it need more 
    information?
- Can it be better or clearly worded?
- Is it technically correct?
- If unavoidably worded in the negative; is the negative term 
    written in capitals?
- Does the stem start with "which one of the 
    following...?" instead of "which of the 
    following...?"
C. The Options:
- Are the options similar in structure and length? ( 
    Semantecallyand 
    grammatically)
- Do they overlap?
- Do they complete the stem?
- Are numerical ones arranged in order of magnitude?
