The Origin of ESP.
The origin of ESP can be subdivided into important events that 
    has made it emerge.
They are
- The World War II
- Trade and Expertise alongside the Oil Boom in the Middle 
    East
- Developments in Educational Psychology
The World War II
The world war II ushered in one word great 
    advancement in science and technology. It also brought about what 
    we can refer to as an industrial revolution.
Above this, the world war II also introduced a new set of world 
    powers, they are America and Britain.
Therefore because of the emergence of America and Britain, 
    English language became a globalised language of diplomacy and 
    international relations.
In addition, there was a need to exchange ideas in the areas of 
    science and technology amongst nations. This also brought about the 
    need for non-native English speakers to learn English in order to 
    read manuals, interact with fellow scientists and also study in 
    high technological English speaking environs of Britain and 
    America.
ESP therefore became needed to teach the language along the 
    confines of specific needs with a strong strategic disposition to 
    learner and target needs.
Trade and Expertise Alongside the Oil Boom in the Middle 
    East
Also at this point in the early 70’s the middle east were 
    experiencing an oil boom. There was therefore a need to employ 
    experts and also learn from expertise, not only in language but 
    also in their specific operational duties since the equipments were 
    western.
English therefore became a vehicle for science based, 
    technological based knowledge.
Trade and bilateral trade agreements on oil also increased the 
    need to learn English so as to enhance communication on bargaining 
    powers alongside global policy implementation.
Development in Edu-Psychology
Noam Chomsky of (1964) classical and 
    structural behavioural models of learning 
    thereby giving credence to cognitive approaches to learning.
For Chomsky, Humans are thinking beings who have the ability to 
    express themselves. They are only guided by the structural laws of 
    grammar. Chomsky gives credence to meaning unlike structuralism 
    (which gives credence to structure).
After Chomsky, there were several theories propounded that gave 
    credence to the fact that learners have a role to play in 
    education. One of such is the Affective approach which posits that 
    humans are emotional beings, therefore emotional circumstances may 
    warrant their success in the educational process.
ESP therefore adopts the interplay of the affective and the 
    cognitive approaches, alongside others to prepare a suitable and 
    understanding learning process for the learners.
Target Needs
Target needs can be best explained when the major factors that 
    comprise target needs are addressed. They are
(I) Needs
(II) Wants
(III) Lacks.
Needs are the strategic needs of the particular learner(s) that 
    will make it possible for him or her to be proficient in his or her 
    profession.
Wants are located by the ESP teacher when strategic needs have 
    been determined. This is what the learner wants to know. It is 
    one word strongly connected to the learner’s 
    motivation as this might clash with the teacher’s plans. The ESP 
    teacher therefore needs to locate what the learner 
    actually wants to know, though 
    questionaires or through 
    the response clues being given by the learner(s).
Lacks are the essential language skills which the learner lacks, 
    but which is important for his profession. This can be determined 
    by the ESP teacher by given asking questions, 
    can be gotten from 
    questionaires, and also preliminary tests could also be 
    used.
Certain questions are to be asked by the teacher in order to 
    know the target needs of the learner.
I) The Background of the learner
II) The level of expertise of the learner
III) The Motivation of the learner
IV)
I) The Background of the learner
This asks whether he or she has a knowledge of general English 
    or not.
II) The Level of Expertise of the learner
This asks whether the personality(ies) is an artisan, an 
    businessman or a professional, as this will determine their level 
    of exposure.
III) The Motivation of the Learner
This asks why the learner has come to learn  Is it one word integrative? that is, is it to 
    be part of the speech community or is it Instrumental, is it for 
    promotion, for accreditation, etc
Others are
(IV) Grading Policy – The grading policy or approach to be used 
    by the teacher. How teachers are evaluated is also considered
Learning Needs
learning Needs is a perspective of the learner on ESP. It is a 
    learner centred approach unlike target needs which is 
    contextual.
Learning Needs asks questions such as
(I) Location – the location of ESP teaching
(II) Duration – The Duration of ESP teaching
(III) Grading Policy – The grading policy that will be 
    used by the
(III) Motivation – The motivation of the learner to learn. This 
    can be either integrative or instrumental.
(IV)
Learning Centred Approach
This concerns given cognisance to the fact that 
    learners play a role learning and its method 
    play a pivotal role in the lives of learners.
The ESP teacher must therefore look for suitable approaches for 
    learning.
Learning Centred Approaches are as follows
Behaviourism Mentalism Cognitive Approach 
    Cognitive-Affective Approach
- Natural Approach
This gives credence to the fact that learners are naturally 
    intelligent, they only need guidance to achieve success in 
    learning.
Natural Approach is divided into
- PPPA – Presentation, Practice and Production
one character This gives credence to group 
    discussions, group assignments. This is because the process is 
    aimed at making the learner an avid self-taught proficient 
    individual. The teacher guides the learner but when evaluated 
    allows him to either consult him or not.
There is the use of pictures, images to present and enjoyable 
    learning approach
-
- Structural Approach Behavioural Approach – 
    This is a learner centred approach that gives credence to rote 
    learning, mimicry and copying. This method is used in teaching 
    foreign or packaged languages in Brazil.
It is considered a cheap, easier learner centred approach as the 
    learner is only made to reproduce what he or she had been taught, 
    without any form of changes.
The teacher uses repetition, text repetition and example 
    repetition to teach.
