SECTION A paper 2
1. The people of Owu led by prince Dejumo destroyed 
    Ile-Ife their sacred land.  their 
     and destroyed killed the 
    people and captured Iyunloye the wife of Okunade due to her beauty 
    and held her captive. So Okunade vowed to revenge. he joined the 
    Army and stayed there for years until his rank raises to that of a 
    mayor and he held the people of Owu captives for 7 years until they 
    came inside the city and destroyed the city and the men of Owu and 
     the women among the soldiers. They also 
    disobeyed the god's and the 
    god's  
    them.
SECTION B
 There Humour simply 
    means Laughter.There are so many humour Shaw uses in the play Arms 
    and the man and some of them are thus:
A man loading his ammunition with chocolate instead of bullets 
    provokes laughter
How the man (Bluntchili) 
    slept off after the bulgarian soldiers came and searched 
     bed chamber.
The disappearance of the coat and its reappearance.The 
    disapperance of the 
    portrait and inside the pocket of the coat 
    it's reappearance 2 words provokes 
    laughter.
SECTION C
The poem was talking about a boy who 2 words 
    faced extreme poverty, loneliness. Stanza 2 line three (3) 
    described how his blue shirt was  due to 
    poverty. As the , the four cardinal point meets 
    in his head. he asked his mother where he comes from because he 
    want to take a step forward. When he will wear long trousers 
    because they were not allowed to wear long trousers by the white 
    because they were blacks. 1 word During the 
    colonial rule in South-Africa 
    there were racial 
    descrimination between the whites and the blacks so because 
    of this the blacks were not allowed to work in companies, wear long 
    trousers e.t.c. so because of this, 
    the boy exclaimes to his mother 
    when he will wear long trousers.
The boy also asked his mother where was his father jailed. These 
    means that the boy don't know his father. During the colonial 
    rule in South-Africa, A 
    black man is not allowed to enter into a taxi with the whites if a 
    black is found 
    critizing the white, he will be jailed and it is these that 
    made the boys father 
    jailed.
SECTION A paper 3
3. A Woman IN HER PRIME BY ASARE KONADU
Pokuwaa was not fertile and she  because 
    they believe that by apeacing 
    the gods they will be fertile. Pokuwaa made so many sacrifices to 
    the gods () due to her 
    unfertility so as 
    to that the gods will bless her with children.
Another superstition was there whenever 1 
    word there is thunder 
    -storm, the people of Brenhoma believe that the gods is 
    angry with them so they ask the women to cook in other to 
    apeace the gods.
The  believe that by pouring libation on the 
    ground, They are able to calm the gods.
SECTION B
6) Satiago was a man who was 
    experienced in Fishing and but was unlucky. The 
    boy (Marnolin) is the boy who 
    was taught by the old man how to fish. A boy who was picked by the 
    old man at 5 years.
The relationship that existed between them was a cordial 
    relationship.(father and son It was a father and 
    son relationship, a good relationship. The old man (Santiago) and 
    the boy (Marnolin) discussing 
    2 characters about sports e.g baseball. The old man waking up from sleep and calling 
    the boy to wake up. The boy carrying the old 
    mans fishing tools to the sea 
     early in the morning when there is cold, 
    walking bare-footed.
The boy giving the old man yellow 
    -rice, buying beer for him and buying  
    for the old man (Santiago). The boy being so unhappy when the old 
    man comes back with no single fish.
Another relationship that existed between them was the old man 
    teaching the boy how to fish.
