House Number 12,
Block D, prince
 Modern
Estate, .
 Nigeria.
23rd May, 2007.
Dear .
Hello dearest friend.
How are you and 1 character how are you 
    coping with the cold weather over there in the States
    . I know 
    its been long we've not heard from one another 
     but not to worry much. all is fine. My 
    reasons of writing this letter to you is to know how you are doing 
    over there and to intimate or inform you about the last 
    populat-ion and housing Census which took place here in 
    nigeria. 
    , I want you to know that it was a 
    different thing all together, 
    quite different from the previous ones. the reason is because
    , the just concluded census does 
    not only care to know about the number of people alone, but it 
    cared to know about the number of houses, the number of people 
    living in each room, in short it inquired 
    abat about the standard of living of the people. 
    The nation and the citizens stands to gain 
    alot from the just concluded Census.
The first benefit I want to talk about is this. The just 
    concluded census will help the government in times of future 
    planing. Since the government 
    knows the number of people and their standard of living, it will 
    help the government to know the type of economic 
    programes to 
    emback on in order to improve the 
    people's standard of living.
Secondly, The just concluded population and housing Census will 
    help the government in the efficient and equitable distribution of 
    fiscal allocations and other national benefits. The census will 
    help the government to know the areas that are much populated and 
    those which are less populated so that in 
    times of distributing or allocating resources and other things no 
    part will be cheated.
finally, The last population and housing Census will make the 
    government have accurate information on the entire economic, social 
    and educat-ional level of the country. the Census will 
    provide the government will the 
    number of unemployed graduates, the number of undergraduates, the 
    estimate or possible growth of the population in the few coming 
    years and other important informations that will be useful to the 
    government is planing for their 
    economic strategies. So , you see 
    the benefit the country stands to get out of the just concluded 
    Census. please make sure you return 
    hom during the summer holiday because we really missed 
    you.
Thanks
Your's Affectionate
friend, 
(The Don .)
