PAPER 2 QUE SECTION A QUESTION 1.
Owu City is known for wealth and protection because of its wall 
    which was strongly built with the help of their fore 
    -fathers Obatala.
The people offered 
    sacrificies and pledges to the gods and in return, the gods 
    will give them protection and riches. The events that led to the 
    sack of owu was 
    is that the law of the gods is that no Yoruba should take a Yoruba 
    into slavery but the people of owu 
    went to Apomu market harrassed 
    the beautiful maiden's sexually and took some back to the 
    city. Also the birth of Dejumo is prophesied that he would bring 
    destruction to owu, he is to be 
    killed but Erelu refused to kill him out of motherly love.
At last, the whole blame rested on Erelu for not allowing Dejumo 
    to be killed.

SECTION B QUESTION 6
Captain Bluntschli is a soldier who is 
    suposed to carry ammunition but 
    carrys chocolate. The writer 
    used humor to convey his message. Also we see humor when 
    Bluntschili who is inside his 
    enemy enemies house instead of keeping alert 
    sleeps off as Raina went to call her mother Catherine.
Bluntschili who 
    was is disguised in 
    petkoff's Coat runs 
    away and after the war, he decides to bring (return) the coat. When 
    Louka opened the door for him Catherine seeing 
    Bluntschili wanted him to 
    disappear without her husband knowing about his visit. There is 
    humor also when Petkoff came out from the library and sees 
    Bluntschili but that act made 
    Catherine 
    unconfortable.

SECTION C QUESTION 
    9
The simplicity of the boy on the swing centers on his blue shirt 
    and his short. It is believed that in 
    south africa, the whites 
    descriminate the black and 
    all blacks are entitled to live in abject poverty. The blue shirt 
    signifies how poverty has envoded over 
    him. Also we see simplicity in the boy because instead of going to 
    a hotel he decides to be on the swing. The Poem is 
    decitful deceptive, it has a hidden idea outside 
    the poem because it has alot to 
    do with racial 
    descrimination and 
    apartied.
"Mother when will I wear long trousers" 
    simply means that as old as he is he enjoys wearing shorts because 
    of the type of job he is required to do. It will be of no use if he 
    decides to wear long-trousers 
     therefore he is seen as simple.

PAPER 3 SECTION A QUESTION 3
The atmosphere is filled with fear. The gods and the ancestors 
    exercise great influence on the living. The people live to satisfy 
    the intrest of the gods.
In our area of discussion, 
    Pokuwa inability to become pregnant after two years of 
    marriage is attributed to a wrong done of Tano the great ancestor. 
    The gods has no power to open or close a womb this shows the 
    restlessness of an old lady who is anxious to have a child. 
    Therefore pokuwa is labelled 
    barren.
Sometimes one commits an evil which affects the entire society. 
    The god sends vengance by 
    sending lightening and 
    striking down trees. Peoples homes burnt down and most times death. 
    But they did not know that what ever happened is as a result of 
    nature.
Pokuwa and 
     have in their helplessness visited Tano for a 
    child but utterly rejects this influence because it 
    sacrifies where too much. To 
    satisfy this, refuses her purification rites of the supreme 
    diety. She had Peace and 
    eventually - conceives without the influence of the fetish - priest 
    Tano.

5
The man represent Jesus christ 
    the sea represent the problems and the boy represents the faithful 
    servant.
