PAPER 2 (Drama and Poetry)
SECTION A (African Drama)
The city of Owu was a peaceful one. They were blessed 
    economically by their gods. They flourished in their economic 
    status and also they were 
    peagans.
But the people of Owu wronged their gods which led to the 
    destruction of their city. There was a prophecy that a son who 
    would be bore by the queen Erelu would bring calamity but the queen 
    refused. They were told to kill the child but the queen hid him 
    till he grew up and became a full 
    grown man. His name was Dejumo. A
A woman named Iyunoye was 
    bethroded to Okunade who was good in the work of arts. They 
    loved each other very much but Iyunoye was forcefully 
    tookn her away from him and given 
    to prince Dejumo. This made Okunade very sad and angry and made him 
    sort a way to revenge on the people of Owu, so he left his work and 
    joined the army.
The people of Owu also committed a 
    sacralage by selling their fellow to slavery to the white 
    men. It was a taboo for a Yoruba to sell a fellow 
    yoruba. So, when the goddess 
    Lawunmi saw this she was very 
    angry and decided to punish the people of Owu for their sins. 
    Anlugbua her son tried to plead on their behalf to this mother but 
    the goddess Lawumi refused.

SECTION B (Non-African Drama)
No 6
Humour can be said to be what arises laugh in the minds of the 
    audience.
Humour can be cited in the play where a 
    swiss machinery known as Bluntschli came into the 
    house room of a lady known as Raina through the 
    shutters and threatened her life if she shouted to alert the 
    members of her household but she 
    was after a long conversation between the both 
    of them Raina found out that Bluntschli who is a soldier that ought 
    to put ammunitions in his gun rather put chocolate. This event made 
    Raina call him the chocolate cream soldier.

SECTION C (African Poetry)
No 9
The poem is a very simple one.
Boy on a swing by Oswald Mtshali is a simple poem but is 
    deceptive because of the strategy in which the poet wrote it. There 
    are so many poetic devices in the poem e.g 
     
    Asonance  
    repitition and so on which 
    makes the poem deceptive.

PAPER 3 SECTION A (African prose)
TANO - Tano is the god to the people of Brenhoma. The people of 
    Brenhoma gave him supplications and also worshipped him. They put 
    their trust in Tano and also called him their eminent god.
When a woman known as Pokuwaa was barren she went to Tano 
    because she believed he would give her a child and gave him 
    offerings and worshipped him always.

KORAMOA - Koramoa is a very close friend to Pokuwaa and also has 
    deep affection for Pokuwaa. Koramoa is the second wife to 
    Koffi Dafo. Their relationship was 
    right from their childhood. 
    Koramo was the one who got married to 
    Koffi Dafo after Pokuwaa and 
    Koffi Dafo divorced. 
    A She always consoled Pokuwaa 
    because whenever Pokuwaa thought of her 
    barreness.

SECTION B (Non-African Prose)
No 5
The playwright used symbolism in the novel 
    Santiago (the old man) represents Jesus Christ when the boy which 
    is Manolin told him his the 
    holes wounds in his palms looked like fishless 
    desert and they were so deep.

Manolin represents a faithful servant. He helped Santiago the 
    old him man in his fishing work.

The sea represents the world and its troubles.

The marlin (fish) represents the difficulties Jesus went through 
    when he was in the world.
