residents student nurses I'll be giving I'll be erm giving the ? treating for the neurology unit I present Mister ANON a sixty one year old retired agric superintendent a Christian ? married residing at number ANON ANON in Edo state he presented here at the emergency room a year ago with complaints of difficulty in passing urine of five years' duration he had complaints of urinal frequency ? erm day night incidence of passing urine eight times at day and ten times at night as against the usual frequency of three times in day and none or maximum of once at night he had urgency ? nocturnal he also had obstructive symptoms of erm poor urine stream not improved by straining erm terminal dripping of urine exigency intermittency you know incomplete voiding he had an episode of acute detention of urine in urea track presentation which was relieved by urethra atrisation he presented because he had been having increasing difficulty in passing urine in the one week prior to his presentation in the emergency room there was no prior history of urethra trauma instrumentation or history of sexually transmitted infection ? suggestive of metastatic disease as at the time of presentation he smoked three sticks of cigarettes a day for ten years and drank big bottles of beer weekly for ten years he had no family history of carcinoma of the prostrate or any other malignancy he was non hypertensive of ten years' duration who was not compound in treatment he had delayed presentation following the initial episode of accurate retention of urine for financial reasons the examination finds that ? elderly male he was ? not pale  he was ? not ? not very frail there was no peripheral ? the essential findings on abdominal examination which revealed that abdomen was full proved respiration soft there was mild suprapubic tenderness and even the spleen were not palpitably enlarged the kidneys were not palatable there was a fourteen week size suprapubic mass literal test examination reveal preliminary idea ? normal ? there was an enlarged prostrate which was not less than seventy gram in size it was firm erm nodular it's an obliterated medium ? the ? was mobile the fore finger was filled with brown ? an assessment of ? of chronic urinal retention second to benign prostratic ? carcinoma with prostrate was made they have virtual atrisation and one thousand seven hundred mils of retinary urine ? from the bladder samples were sent for urine microscopic culture and si- since it takes time the culture evidence is ready after four hours' incubation the problem now erm would be the haemoglobin of eight or nine milligrams per ? white cell count of six thousand eight hundred cells of ? and pipette offering of a five thousand litre cue the electrolytes were normal but the urea was ? two hundred and four milligram ? bill and seminal ultrasound scan revealed enough homogenous ?   erm it's an estimated erm weight of fifty seven point seven grammes and bilateral hyponephrosis worse on the left there was sticky bladder and it was and there were few earlier lymph nodes there was no ascitis nor liver metastases  a prostate ? prostate with erm un encapsulated with plastic ? the ? stage was stage two erm the patient was erm counselled on the options of treatment available to him and he requested time to think about it then he presented in a clinic erm about two months at erm about three had three erm S T visits for about two months while he was thinking about the option of treatment to choose and subsequently defaulted for a year presented erm in SOP about erm four weeks ago that's after about a year in a chronic renal failure he was admitted to the ward to be co-managed with the nephrologists erm we had an emergency bilateral orchiectomy on the erm seventh of erm this month but however his fatal condition continued to deteriorate by the next twenty four hours and erm at about the in the next morning he erm he was dyspnoeic he was placed on oxygen by erm nasal prong erm but the condition deteriorated he had a cardio-pulmonary resuscitation which was unsuccessful and was confirmed dead on the eighth of September at ten forty five a m the cause of death was chronic renal failure sequeling to advanced carcinoma prostate 