discuss in the way you're talking about it is better for us to get the result together and then we can  we can discuss her behind closed doors when she's not there that is not suggestive that you're taking treatment over her head because right now I have a saying the patient must be part of the decision I will ask the patient this is what we intend to do wouldn't be not erm not impressed alone even take ? over here in my own unit which is the time ? I say to patient I customise my survey I sit the patient down what is the point when you ? with a patient who may not be able to afford ? ? to find out from within and say that is why you eat this is what I think you deserve do you feel the post op management would be able to cope so you are enquiring on a complaint that I that I did not look into the review and the culture of the patient before you transpose anything because you do you're not going to get the same result finally you just like when one communicate in the US and you are talking about consent I say what do you mean by what consent age is culturally based well that was a time last week when I played around with erm professor Williams we particularly ? when you send the patient from Glasgow from Edinburgh from anywhere Professor Williamson will be telling that acquired you see this operation last about six hours even with my experience ? yes that's what he sent ? you know you are good great well I said what you may ? now I tell one day Professor said to Nigerians and at that time I believe in that listen whatever here the government tell ? I say no like I said I have to find a way of telling that patient that I do it because ? I'll use another example there are many complications finished for you to find a way of and reduce all complications alright ? you may lose your voice if it happen to you and I say I have been doing this for so many and we have been lucky with the support of God that we pray to the average patient and be religious ? he believes it or not many of them I wouldn't say hundred per cent have not suffered anything so this day is culturally based and we must look into it before you honestly judge ? 