erm good morning professor consultants senior registrar registrars House officers and nurses to be present I'll be taking the mortality presentation for the neurological surgery unit I have two cases to present the first case is that of O D he was a male of twenty seven year old a footballer and a labourer who resided in Warri was a Christian and an Urhobo he was admitted via the accident and emergency unit with complaint of loss of consciousness of twenty si- one hours he fell from the height of about six storey building while working in a construction site there was immediate loss of consciousness and he had an episode of seizures though the the amount there have been a number of seizures and the type of seizures would not be and s-  could not be erm gotten from the history from the ? history there was also history of bleeding from the nose there was no vomiting and there was no ? to be gotten he had initial care at General Hospital Warri erm where he was transported non-ambulance and subsequently referred to UBTH in an ambulance transport there was no premorbid history he's single what I mean was that the initial care was at General Hospital Warri he was transported to Warri non-ambulance but when he was referred to UBTH he was trans- yes there was no premorbid history he's single fifth of six children in a monogamous setting he does not take alcohol on examination we found out accurately the looking looking young he was not pale he was anetheric he was afebrile erm pulse rates and the blood pressure were essentially normal the brain's nerve was residual the central nervous system examination Glasgow coma score he had erm no eye opening incomprehensible verbal response strong flexion which gave him the Glasgow coma score of eight the pupils were ? the lacramae was sluggish the lung tract the motor component within the pore- erm muscle pore which was normal in all group of muscle  there was generalised hypertonia the power was with three pulse locally and the reflex had generalised hyperreflexia sensation was not done there was no abnormality in the spine he had a suture relapsation over the right ? bone and there was no abnormality in the abdomen the impression was that of severe head injury secondary to a fall we did an urgent renal C T which showed erm intra intracerebral haemorrhagic alteration on the right front prior to  ? region cerebral oedema those are the intra cerebral haemorrhagic contrition then there's some enforcement of the ipsilateral lateral ventricle on the right erm there was also ? no ? depressed fracture with erm some depressed bones ? in the intra cerebral aspect erm the C spine the cervical spine X-ray that was done was not adequate for reporting but  it however showed some pe- proactive bio soft tissues well as well as cervical straightening the chest X-ray revealed homogenous patchy filtrate and the tuberculoba X-rays showed no abnormality the ? X-ray was normal he was s- he was nursed according to neurological surgery pedigree protocol thirty degree head on erm intravenous fluid four point three per cent dextrose sterilised intra-muscular paracetamol that was to maintain the cervical pore gland  the E and U ? that was done was essentially normal the anaesthetist was invited to review the view of emergency ? at the ? at surgery the findings were that of the right parietal scalp relaxation which was sutured there was underlining right parietal ? depressed fracture as well as dual tear with a ? brain he had an elevation and the ? as well as a ? the immediate post conf- immediate post-op provision was fair we suspected he had an aspiration for which he was transferred to ICU for IC care the first week in ICU admission was essentially uneventful on the eighth day on ICU attempt at communication was- ? as he was ? as well as the ? was ? he was ? ? ? as well as ? he was extubated on the fourteenth day and the saturation moved to  ninety nine per cent that was forty kilogramme per ? ? ? score improved to about eleven then we noted that he was having some left hemiparesis which was resolving he was subsequently transferred to the ward he he did well between the fourteenth and the twenty second day but on the twenty second day post op he was noticed to be having respiratory difficulty and striddle  for which an emergency tracheostomy was done he was apparently well until ? on the twenty second to about the forty second day when we noticed that he in fact he was already been planned for discharge because his tracheostomy has improved to about twelve so we were called to see the patient who was said to be restless said to have pulled out tracheostomy tube while we examined he had no respiratory effort there was no pulse no cardiac activity we attempted to put up the tracheostomy but it proved abortive as could not erm he was certified dead subsequently erm primary cause of death was that of erm resolving severe ? traumatic brain injury secondary cause asphyxiation 