the second case is that of A B A who was a two month old infant whose parents reside in ANON and they are Christians he was referred from central hospital Ugheli nineteen hours after birth to UBTH with complaints of swelling at the back of the head from birth the swelling was noticed immediately after birth the swelling was said to be inert initially but erm later started discharging some cell sanguineous effluent there was no history of trauma during delivery erm there was no history of trauma during the delivery of the baby and the baby had mild fever and there was no history of convulsion the pregnancy was booked and the antenatal care was essentially uneventful delivery was attained by spontaneous vertex delivery the child was the child did not cry immediately after birth erm until he was resuscitated he's the last of four children in a mo- monogamous setting no sibling has swelling and not other siblings the father is a forty seven year old teacher so also the mother who is forty year old  on examination we found the pink unit was not pale anetheric afebrile he was conscious the anterior fontanelle was ? and ? circumference was twenty four cm there was an occipital swelling measuring about twenty two cm by twenty four cm it was soft cystic ? not tender with multiple discharging sinuses the neck was supple was erm global hypo- hypertonia and there was reduced ? and ? reflex there was no deformity of the spine the respiratory rate was twenty eight cycles per minute the ? was ? heart rate was a hundred and forty four beat per minute was regular there was no murmur erm there was no abnormality in the abdomen and the inner opening was intact the question was lack of ? encephalosy so we took blood for full blood count which showed the wh- white cell count was twenty seven thousand with a differential of erm neutrophil differential of eighty sixty per cent lymphocyte was eleven per cent packed cell volume was fifty two per cent random blood sugar was forty nine milligram per dm the electrolyte urea ? done was essentially normal erm we ordered for the premier C T which showed soft tissue swelling is a sur- surgical reconstruction of the swelling you know however it show erm soft tissue swelling which extends up to the calvaria there was midline body defect through the occipital region as well as isodence hypodense component in the occipital region communicating with the brain ? defect the ventricles were dilated and there was no ? achieved the impression was that of an encephalosy a transfontanelle ultrasound scan was also done which also confirmed same thing now this is the a picture a picture of what I am trying to describe there is a difference here and this is the swelling over here with some hypo and isodence erm component to it the other slide that would have given us some better view we did a electrocardiogram which we did sinus reading he was commenced on an IV antibiotics IV ? one hundred and fifty milligram per kilogram inter alia I V genticin five milligram per kilogramme eight hourly and was placed on ? ? in fact patient we were called to see this patient because he was admitted under the paediatrician so the paediatrician continued management for neonatal jaundice and a suspected meningitis he however discharged from the special care baby unit and he was seen in the neurological surgery clinic and he was worked up for surgery the full blood count erm electrolyte urea and ? done was normal hemato rate was  thirty two per cent he had a number of ? examination which revealed the bilateral sluggish reacting pupil no obvious vision impairment he had surgery at surgery the findings were that of an occipital encephalosy with necrotic surface three hundred mils of ? occipital pink tissue which probably contained some part of the brain stem he was in two cm occipital score defect which extend to the upper cervical region he had an excision and repair of the encephalosy with the ? the first day immediate post op he suffered hypothermia erm he was kept on observation at the recovery room erm until and he was warmed with warm bag the temperature return but however for eighty hours which is now the first day post op we noticed he was now having respiratory distress temperature was thirty seven point three degrees centigrade the heart the respiratory rate was eighteen cycles per minute heart beat was one ninety beats per minute erm there was widespread trepidation the the second nervous system examination he had continuous hypothermia there was weak considerable crying and troflexion my impression was that  os- was that of status S D first day post op exertion and ? that was with moderate respiratory distress secondary to refraction of brain stem fluid overload and query aspiration he was placed on O two by nasal prongs and intravenous fluid of four point three per cent dextrose in sterilised at fifteen mills per hour and was commence of graded oral intake the post op electrolyte ? done was normal third day post op patient was noticed to be regurgitating fit and was now having intermittent ? respiratory rate there was twelve cycles per minute the breath sound was residual oxygen saturation was between eighty three and ninety three per cent that was on oxygen by nasal prongs the CNS examination was essentially the same ? thinking of a possible brain stem dysfunction to rule out ? we invited the anaesthetist to review for ICU admission but however when they review the respiratory rate turned out to be abou- to be about thirty two to twenty four cycles per minute the S Q O two rose to about ninety five per cent and based on that they felt ICU admission was not indicated in fact he discussed with his consultant who also concurred with him he was fairly stable on the fifth and sixth day post op but on the seventh day he started having same repeated severe happenings saturation this time around was between seventy nine to eighty five per cent erm he had broken vesicular breath sound retransmitted sound we suspect we suspected aspiration pneumonitis erm invited them again for ICU admission he was reviewed and to be admitted into ICU but however erm before patient could be transported to ICU he suffered a cardiac arrest cardiopulmonary resuscitation was commenced but failed to respond he was certified dead erm primary cause of death was occipital encephalosy secondary cause was ?  