Transcription 1   ? is out
Transcription 1   I see twelve more teams are already 
Transcription 1   as good as having qualified for the 
Transcription 1   semi-final but erm
Transcription 1   this is the last groups that might would mean that
Transcription 1   erm a reverse ? Togo between Ghana will just mean 
Transcription 1   Nigeria
Transcription 1   playing
Transcription 1   erm Ghana instead of Togo
Transcription 1   in the semi-finals 
Transcription 1   the other team are standing by as also qualifier
Transcription 1   surprisingly 
Transcription 1   is the Republic of Liberia
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   at ?
Transcription 1   ? erm were expected very very ? down because erm both teams  
Transcription 1   each of them are trying to avoid Nigeria in the semi-final
Transcription 2   that's ? because the fear of Nigeria he stages the
Transcription 2   beginning of wisdom
Transcription 2   and knowing the
Transcription 2   form that the Nigerians have
Transcription 2   at the moment
Transcription 1   okay d- d- d- 
Transcription 1   the Eagles are in form and everybody seem to have ? that the central referee yeah his name is Mohamed Soumah
Transcription 1   from Guinea
Transcription 1   and erm Mohamed Soumah from Guinea erm that is him bold young man who has erm proved himself   
Transcription 1   in the course of this competition he is FIFA vedette one of very few 
Transcription 1   from West Africa
Transcription 1   he is assisted by Antoni ? 
Transcription 1   from Liberia and from ? from Senegal  
Transcription 1   the ? referee's Abubakar Ago from Nigeria 
Transcription 1   and the match commissioner is Sharaf Aboubacar from the Republic 
Transcription 1   of Côte d'Ivoire
Transcription 1   Togo has erm in goal Mawugbe Atsou sporting dress number  
Transcription 1    just erm sporting dress number nineteen 
Transcription 1    and in defence we have ? 
Transcription 1   number three  
Transcription 1    Amétépé Kodjo number four 
Transcription 1   ? number five 
Transcription 1   and ? Akoriko ? number six   
Transcription 1   the mid-field Togo
Transcription 1    Zakari Morou number nine 
Transcription 1    Wome Sename Dové
Transcription 1   number ten
Transcription 1   Kondo Arimiyaou 
Transcription 1   he's number eleven and we have ?
Transcription 1   of ? number twelve   
Transcription 1   Ayara Samoudini number thirteen    
Transcription 1   erm Djene Ortega is fourteen   
Transcription 1   Jesse number fifteen 
Transcription 1   and for the Black Stars of Ghana Daniel Agyei ? once the number one goalkeeper 
Transcription 1   for Ghana ? missing goal 
Transcription 1   and any moment from now we're gonna witness the kick-off  
Transcription 1   Kwakuku Andoh 
Transcription 1   Joshua Otto
Transcription 1   Edm- Edward Kpodo as ? playing ? all in defence 
Transcription 1   and that is the kick-off ladies and gentlemen the Ghana Black Stars
Transcription 1   are playing in the white shirt 
Transcription 1   in the erm mid-field the ? 
Transcription 1   ? leading the attack Gyan Asamoah not 
Transcription 1   Adams Sadick ? 
Transcription 3   welcome once again to the ? studio with this erm ? number five
Transcription 3   erm the ongoing West African Football Union
Transcription 3   WAFU Cup
Transcription 3   and erm the implication is that a winner here
Transcription 3   today
Transcription 3   will have considered an automatic
Transcription 3   qualification
Transcription 3   to the semi-finals and again have also the possibility
Transcription 3   of avoiding the Super Eagles of Nigeria erm
Transcription 3   d- d- d- the pressure is low and true ? ladder is in my mind two goals to one ?
Transcription 2   definitely they are the team that will be erm going all out to try to turn the table
Transcription 2   they lost the first erm led between them
Transcription 2   erm it's like a
Transcription 2   a first led and a second led now so
Transcription 2   oh they will be
Transcription 2   erm yeah condemned to erm
Transcription 2   try to get a very very decent result decent result for them will be
Transcription 2   erm victory by two goals to nothing
Transcription 2   against erm Ghana so that
Transcription 2   they can avoid the Super Eagles who are in a good ? form at the moment
Transcription 1   okay ?
Transcription 1   players yeah erm those who erm f- form the main bulk of the
Transcription 1   national and ? team that are currently campaigning
Transcription 1   for a place at the All-African Games football event and in London
Transcription 1   erm twenty twelve Europe's big football event
Transcription 1   and now this is Togo
Transcription 1   Togo number ten
Transcription 1   Djene Ortega
Transcription 1   moves here to
Transcription 1   attack ?
Transcription 1   ? that out to ?
Transcription 1   th- the Togolese are having a feud erm and they're trying to walk their way
Transcription 1   into
Transcription 1   ? Daniel Adyei ? Daniel Adyei
Transcription 1   the World Cup winner ? for Ghana beating Brazil on penalties
Transcription 1   and the la- and the last feature on the twenty World Cup 
Transcription 1   erm for that is one thing
Transcription 1   one very very high point of erm
Transcription 1   of Ghanaian football
Transcription 3   I take a ? look out of this match without ?
Transcription 3   and the Ghanaians are stepping out of their old leader now ?
Transcription 3   ?
Transcription 3   brings it down to
Transcription 3   Edward Kpodo 
Transcription 3   Edward Kpodo is having to contend with this opposite number there
Transcription 3   of Togo 
Transcription 3   across
Transcription 3   the Ghanaians are waiting this could be a chance for all the Black Stars of Ghana 
Transcription 3   but the goalkeeper his name is ? 
Transcription 3   by the way? plays for Liberty FC in erm in Togo
Transcription 3   and this is the compense shot for home-based player ? 
Transcription 3   in the course of collateral we tell him the names of these very ? players 
Transcription 3   erm waiting to clubs they play for here specified
Transcription 3   this is Togo
Transcription 3   he will try to launch an attack
Transcription 3   ?
Transcription 3   ? and there is opinion for penalty
Transcription 1   ? the referee Mohamed Soumah from Guinea says
Transcription 1   that was a very brief handball
Transcription 3   ? pulls a yellow card
Transcription 3   without erm central player
Transcription 3   number three Jesse for Ghana
Transcription 3   there we have Edward Kpodo
Transcription 1   ? penalties can't really ?
Transcription 2   like that of course erm definitely that's come to erm pressure like that but
Transcription 2   erm you you would say that it all actually matter this time then he didn't actually put his hand there but we did see
Transcription 2   he moved his shoulder a little bit
Transcription 2   so that was a deliberate attempt to grab the ball with the hand
Transcription 2   and he did it and quite interestingly
Transcription 2   it will be nice to see the Togolese take the lead
Transcription 2   from this ?
Transcription 2   erm having
Transcription 2   suffered similar fate against the Ghanaians in their first game
Transcription 2   the Ghanaians scored ?
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 2   oh ?
Transcription 2   ? the the Togolese are going to ? this chance for the rest of the game
Transcription 1   their most celebrated player there is number ten 
Transcription 1   Wome Sename Dové
Transcription 1   Wome Sename Dové has taken in ? one for that matter
Transcription 1   and goalkeeper Daniel Agyei is not one 
Transcription 1   to be pitied by cheap erm
Transcription 1   cheap balls so let's depart the
Transcription 1   five minutes of play in this scene 
Transcription 1   erm ? situation
Transcription 3   Ghana losing the opportunity to go ahead Ghana cannot keep
Transcription 3   and that is very very sad for Ghana indeed
Transcription 3   erm the Togolese will want to take advantage of it by launching another attack and this is what ? will do
Transcription 3   ? number five erm Gueoje Cyril
Transcription 2   ?
Transcription 3   and erm Gueoje Cyril is erm
Transcription 3   and Gueoje Cyril sporting dress number five plays for
Transcription 3   and yet
Transcription 3   and yet they know that is erm not an endless ?
Transcription 3   in Togo
Transcription 3   and of course the ? player play for the ?
Transcription 3   so the four last teams here in Togo remember the great days of ?
Transcription 3   ?
Transcription 3   ? sporting dress number four is ?
Transcription 3   ? today
Transcription 3   of course ? four players 
Transcription 3   it is such a line-up
Transcription 3   Togo now technically very easy
Transcription 3   their their free kick
Transcription 1   Togo gets a free kick ? set up through Mohamed Soumah from Guinea  
Transcription 1   ? proceedings ?
Transcription 1   and of course ? missed the penalty Wome Sename Dové is still not
Transcription 1   a very happy man they are not as expected 
Transcription 1   expected so
Transcription 1   throwing to Togo and erm
Transcription 1   and to the Black Stars of Ghana 
Transcription 1   and erm 
Transcription 1   Jesse ? expresses
Transcription 1   surprise there
Transcription 1   ? has almost caught him  
Transcription 1   in the in in the no man's land there he had to 
Transcription 1   ? kicking that ball wide wide out into ?  
Transcription 1   it is the Togolese surprise ? that are
Transcription 1   doing most of the attacking in this game especially going through erm  
Transcription 1   what a victory into this game against the Black Stars of Ghana 
Transcription 1   would mean 
Transcription 1   for erm for them in the erm in the semi-final level
Transcription 1   number one to guarantee they're avoiding Nigeria by erm by any means  
Transcription 1   and force ? Nigeria in the finals
Transcription 1   ? 
Transcription 1   t- t- to ? down in the semi-finals where
Transcription 1   the form the Eagles are ? displaying
Transcription 1   they just match indeed to be very very sure that the Eagles
Transcription 1   have just eliminated 
Transcription 1   the Hawks of Ghana
Transcription 1   Ouro-Akoriko Sadat 
Transcription 1   playing very confidently in the mid-field 
Transcription 1   erm in the centre of the defence 
Transcription 1   ? brings it to ? number five 
Transcription 1   ? 
Transcription 1   back again to his right foot back 
Transcription 1   back to
Transcription 1   to  ? 
Transcription 1   pushing through
Transcription 1   the
Transcription 1   opponents' area
Transcription 1   into the opponents' area and erm ?
Transcription 1   as goalkeeper
Transcription 1   Daniel Adjei
Transcription 1   just erm introduced ?
Transcription 2   ? that the Ghanaians are
Transcription 2   the team that erm a-a-a a little bit laid-back they are waiting for the Togolese to come and then
Transcription 2   erm well obviously
Transcription 2   it is because erm they know that
Transcription 2   they are in a driving state at the moment leading by two goals to one from the first encounter between them so if it stays this way
Transcription 2   erm the Ghanaians will be the team that will top that group and erm avoid that
Transcription 2   hehehe encounter with Nigerian Super Eagles
Transcription 2   so
Transcription 2   the Ghanaians can just erm sit back and wait for the Togolese to come and the Togolese
Transcription 2   haven't been doing badly at all
Transcription 2   they are taking erm its ? from the neck and erm
Transcription 2   giving it a go
Transcription 2   and fighting
Transcription 2   so that unfortunately they had a penalty
Transcription 2   that erm really erm should have been scored
Transcription 2   erm for now they still have to continue to fight on
Transcription 2   Togo
Transcription 2   now building up from the erm rear
Transcription 2   it's really
Transcription 2   a ? in the middle
Transcription 2   even though the Ghanaians are not
Transcription 2   erm looking like a team that is in a hurry to attack and score
Transcription 2   but they are keeping the mid-field up tight
Transcription 2   and paging
Transcription 2   for everyone how to be
Transcription 2   at a loss
Transcription 2   and again of this nature
Transcription 2   a regional rivals
Transcription 2   we can call it
Transcription 2   Togolese
Transcription 2   West-Africans
Transcription 2   a similar culture but you can see that in some of their names you'd have called ?
Transcription 2   in Togo
Transcription 2   erm just as we have them in Ghana
Transcription 2   and they would definitely erm know themselves very well
Transcription 2   the Ghanaians are utterly pushing forward now
Transcription 2   they seem to have erm used
Transcription 2   erm first
Transcription 2   erm
Transcription 2   ten minutes of the encounter to size up and suck up all the pressure from the Togolese
Transcription 2   and now they are calling out
Transcription 2   oh well that is a a way off target hit
Transcription 2   hehe
Transcription 2   he would not really be happy without trying to ?
Transcription 2   ? and ? of ?
Transcription 2   of erm Ghana
Transcription 2   that's where he plays
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   it's quite a decent game of football we are seeing here
Transcription 1   erm between the two teams there's a
Transcription 1   a tactical awareness so it seems 
Transcription 1   the referee just wouldn't take
Transcription 1   any
Transcription 1   hehe of those light little
Transcription 1   force
Transcription 1   for their attention
Transcription 1   has to be given
Transcription 1   erm to him 
Transcription 1   yes
Transcription 1   Adams Sadick
Transcription 1   and he tries to impair to
Transcription 1   Adams Sadick
Transcription 1   the young star playing for ? in Ghana you would wonder 
Transcription 1   but then of course erm
Transcription 1   we have so many new clubs
Transcription 1   springing up
Transcription 1   at a country 
Transcription 1   that used to be known as the Goal Coast
Transcription 1   ? is one of them and we have the striker Sadick Adams 
Transcription 1   ? Quincy
Transcription 1   just back in the possession of the Togolese 
Transcription 1   good ? challenge there 
Transcription 1   that was a whole awesome shot 
Transcription 1   but it takes a goalkeeper with experience like Daniel Adjei
Transcription 1   to actually
Transcription 1   cover up
Transcription 1   and save the blushes
Transcription 1   of his erm defender
Transcription 1   so far we haven't seen much of erm incisive ones
Transcription 1   breathtaking 
Transcription 1   erm energetic e- expression of urgency
Transcription 1   just maybe
Transcription 1   the two teams are playing with erm enormous respect for each other  
Transcription 1   ? beautiful ? ch- cheating around there 
Transcription 1   distribution of passes
Transcription 1   the next change is there
Transcription 1   beautiful one erm you gotta have to respect that 
Transcription 1   the Ghanaians
Transcription 1   ?
Transcription 1   ? failing him a ? he did do do something better than that 
Transcription 1   the Tog-
Transcription 1   Togolese thicket
Transcription 1   the good number ten Wobe Sename Dové
Transcription 1   what now 
Transcription 1   brought down
Transcription 1    ? and see erm the culprit from that occasion 
