The era of monumental change or the monumental era of change, if 
    you prefer that — Take Your Choice (TYC) — is most certainly 
    here.
The scourge of returnees amounting to an insignificant one 
    percent of Baluba set about promptly installing themselves at the 
    topmost level of the nation's pyramid of social 
    stratification. The colonial enterprise assumed a new name once the 
    hundreds of dozens of returnees arrived to assume the 
    colonialists' mantle, and they went about it in style. 
    Structures colluded with forms and content could only hide in shock 
    and embarrassment. The logocentric rules of their ideological 
    precursors energized them, and like the proverbial converts, or the 
    inconsolable sympathizer known to be far more piqued than the 
    bereaved, they sang the song of progress in purely technocractic 
    terms, and terminologies.
As I lay on the opulent foam mattress, my body, my being or 
    beingness, as Baami would have put it, ached all over desiring 
    human contact. What began as respect for the communal mat of Aiyeru 
    soon turned into nostalgia for every face, every known heart in 
    Aiyeru. As Baami's dictatorial rule in our household paled 
    into insignificance in the face of the remoteness of the man I was 
    now encouraged to address as Daddy, my heart ached to reach 
    Maami-Agba to let her know about the transformations that have 
    occured in my life — the transformations she had talked about for 
    so long.
Baami left for Aiyeru two days after the returnee's return. 
    He had talked endlessly with my father the previous nights, and as 
    he got ready to depart Port-city they promised to continue their 
    conversations in Aiyeru upon the returnees' impending visit 
    there. Thanksgiving would be at Our Apostolic Church and the 
    Alayeru must be given a free hand in deciding which of the 
    town's many cultural practices would be appropriate in 
    welcoming a deserving son of the soil who has conquered the waves. 
    Call it excitement, over enthusiasm or what have you. But even I 
    was shocked when Baami mouthed the refrain 'afterall no 
    religion can say that we shouldn't appreciate the practices of 
    our forebears!'
But I've never seen very few people occupy so much space in 
    my entire life: Ralph's room, Liz's room, Living-room, 
    Master bedroom and yet there are still more rooms!
Rooms! Rooms! Rooms everywhere and no people to fill them. My 
    mind flew to Lati and his parents' shack at the lagoon and 
    again the contrast was staggering. Almost all of Lati's 
    predictions had come true to the letter, and that frightened me. 
    How could a boy, my own age, predict the life of the returnees so 
    clearly? Elizabethan Island, Lati had said was where my parents 
    would install themselves, side by side with their own kith, and 
    who, I asked myself are really their kins? The world is mixed — 
    that's what the word Aiyeru reiterates — and it was the first 
    sentence ever explained to me as I began to strew words together. 
    But the logic that informed the mixing in Elizabethan Island eluded 
    me. One knew — without being told — that terrible conflicts lay 
    ahead. Discursive and counter-discursive issues needed urgent 
    settlement or at the very least contextualisation, but where do you 
    begin when objects that one side holds sacred are merely art 
    objects to the other side?
Of my two siblings, Ralph was the most tolerant and tolerable — 
    Liz insufferable. Marked resemblance between Liz and Motunde, I 
    constantly assured myself, was the only reason why I've not 
    snuffed the life out of the child prodigy. She knew as much as I 
    did that the ground between us was inherently quaky, and she did 
    her best to steer clear of me. Of course, Ralph exuded major 
    irritants of his own, but not even his worst excesses could match 
    the unending antics of Liz's favourite playmate Michael the 
    destroyer — so named so as to differentiate him from another 
    Michael in the ever-expanding circle of returnees, both young and 
    old.
Elizabethan Island catered for them all. Huge gardens and their 
    accompanying neatly barbed lawns, each tended by a grown man called 
    gardener, reiterated the opulence of each household. A row of 
    duplexes on one side, a second street sporting lines of neatly 
    arrranged bungalows or still 
    more duplexes on the other. The houses were kept so widely apart as 
    if the occupants were aware of one another's reactionary 
    tendencies and tried to avoid each other's eavesdropping 
    company. In spite of this, gossip flowed from compound to compound 
    as the tribe of gardeners intermingled with the hordes of domestic 
    maids, and the retinue of drivers and houseboys — some of whom were 
    older than the masters of the house but were still called boy! This 
    in turn precipitated unending scandals.
Michael the destroyer, whose aggression didn't match his 
    fighting abilities — is a wild cat of about Liz's age. Among 
    Michael the destroyer's two sisters both of whom were left 
    with their paternal grandmother somewhere in Ekitiland while their 
    mother and father like my own parents went in search of the golden 
    fleece, it is Bukola's antics that provided unending amusement 
    for dwellers of Olanibi Street at Elizabethan Island. Very soon, 
    Bukola's tears became as famous as her memorable sayings. The 
    cause or causes of Bukola's tears vary, but a significant half 
    of it has to do with the dietary dictate of Bukola's returnee 
    father, mother, and a brother who was begotten abroad. Give Bukola 
    pounded yam with okro instead of melon soup and the story would end 
    in tears.
'The dish doesn't match the soup,' or vice versa, 
    Bukola would wail endlessly.
The story doesn't end there too, because for Bukola, yam 
    was the source of life and a recourse to cassava in whatever shape 
    or form is either due to chronic poverty or an excruciating lack of 
    imagination, or both. But the returnees' taste buds — as a 
    result of many years of re-acculturation — had acquired diverse 
    habits. With each returning family, cartons of tin food were 
    unloaded out of which a plethora array of dishes were concocted.
'Maami' — as Bukola insisted on calling her mother in 
    spite of the woman's repeated attempt to make her say Mummy — 
    Bukola would say: 'It's only when the dog is away that we 
    go hunting with the sheep. I thought you should know that if 
    you're really my mother.'
'I am your mother alright and it's the witch called 
    your father's mother whom I suspect of misbegetting you,' 
    Bukola's equally tough-minded mother would conjecture!
And so the battle raged. Then one day — a day which broke and 
    changed the course of the family's history — Bukola said to 
    her lionised mother: 'You're evading my question again 
    Maami. Monmi didn't beget me. She looked after me and my 
    sister Oiu, because you weren't there and it took her combined 
    effort and Olukori's help for her to succeed — or don't 
    you remember again that the long spoon belongs to Kori? You should 
    be grateful to Olukori first and Monmi next, but I've heard 
    you hurl nothing but insults at the two.
'Well you see Bukola, I am a Christian, and that fact alone 
    rules out thanking or even acknowledging Olukori as you call it. 
    And as for your father's mother, as I've told you 
    she's a witch. If only you know what I've suffered in the 
    hands of that woman.'
'But the woman you call a witch is the leader of the women 
    in our Church — do you say that merely because you don't like 
    her?' Bukola — who already stood on equal terms with her 
    mother in terms of physique — often asked.
'Watch how you talk to me young lady. Don't forget 
    that I'm your mother. Yes, I don't like your 
    father's mother, because she has never liked me. And how do 
    you call someone a Christian who mixes respect for God with the 
    worship of idols?'
'We would have to separate the two matters then,' 
    Bukola responded.
'What two matters? Look, I'm not going to stand here 
    all day and argue with you. You eat what is put on the table or you 
    go hungry.'
'I don't mind being hungry, Maami,' Bukola said 
    coolly. 'This land and its people taxed themselves so hard to 
    send you and others like you to go and learn about the white 
    man's power — his secrets — and not to go and become white 
    yourselves. We thought you were going to return with the theories 
    and practices of liberation and not icons of further colonisation 
    and enslavement!'
The crack on Bukola's face could have shaken the earth. But 
    to all consternation and amazement, Bukola took the mother's 
    slap without blinking. The tearful girl whose tears filled buckets 
    over pounded-yam and melon soup not even wincing at the sound of a 
    perfectly delivered, well aimed slap. Incredible. An inward rather 
    than outward strength no one thought existed suddenly manifesting, 
    making her look incredibly beautiful.
'Don't talk to me like that you daughter of a wicked 
    witch.'
'Which witch?' Bukola queried.
'Your father's mother — she is the witch.'
'But I'm not her daughter. I'm your daughter. 
    That means you're the witch.'
Bukola's mother was incensed. Her beautiful face contorted 
    and her shapely mouth twisted into a serpentine curl.
'Oh, so I'm now the witch. It's certainly true 
    what they say that if the farmer is slow in reprimanding the thief, 
    there's nothing stopping the thief from turning round to call 
    the farmer a thief.'
'And whose saying is that, Maami?'
'A human saying.'
'I am glad you're now tapping into humanity's 
    collective storehouse of knowledge and wisdom instead of the 
    monolithic after-thoughts of the land of your sojourn. Yes, Maami 
    you're still one of us. That is one of the wisest sayings of 
    our people — If the farmer is slow in apprehending the thief, it is 
    in the nature of thieves to turn round and accuse the farmer,' 
    Bukola said, breathlessly reappropriating her mother's 
    rhetorical lines.
You've got to be accustomed to mechanical images to 
    appreciate what happened next between Bukola and her mother. 
    Erstwhile concealed and unshed tears flowed freely on both sides of 
    Bukola's smooth cheeks. Her lips trembled as she placed shaky 
    fingers on them to muffle smiles of joy threatening to turn into 
    roaring laughter. Bukola looked at her mother anew — repeating 
    loving entreaties without uttering a single word. In contrast, age, 
    wisdom and experience featured on Bukola's mother's 
    diminutive demeanour and a thin line, like a fading furrow between 
    two heaps of mound, appeared on the mother's forehead. 
    Weariness displaced tiredness and truth prevailed. Bukola took two 
    faltering steps inside the large living-room and stopped as if 
    uncertain. Bukola's tears flowed freely and it was the mother 
    who reasserted control over a precarious situation.
'Come here! You daughter of Olatosa,' the mother 
    said.
'Maami! Omo amufa se mogitn se! 
    Art baba mogunjo! You're the true 
    daughter of your father.'
Bukola's mother laughed mirthlessly, blinked hard in an 
    unsuccessful attempt to stop three solitary flashing drops of 
    tears.
'Get the hell out here Olatunji. This is no sight for 
    sacrilegious souls,' Bukola commanded without even looking at 
    me.
I scrambled to my feet only to fall back into the extra 
    cushioned couch, but scrambled back and stood there like a 
    stupefied chick immobilized and transfixed by the mesmerising hawk 
    displaying its cannibalistic hawkitude. My only path out of the 
    large living-room blocked by Bukola's mother's half-naked 
    brown back. Without turning, Bukola's mother said in a voice I 
    don't think neither I nor Bukola have ever heard before:
'I'm sorry I ever fought you — both of you. Tunji and 
    Bukola there is nothing wrong with your upbringing. We're the 
    ones trying to be what we cannot be. But the story is far more 
    complex than you can both imagine. By picking huge holes in every 
    aspect of the univocality of The Great Tradition, you've 
    managed to poke the darkest origins of a very deep matter. And 
    whoever does that must be shown the discursive bottom of the matter 
    because as our people say, half a reptile does not inhabit the 
    bosom of mother-earth. How we arrived singing songs of enslavement 
    and further colonisation is no simple matter. But when you've 
    been lobotomised, there is no easy way out of your socio-cultural 
    dilemma. Your choices are few and limited, and you simply become a 
    mere passenger in the saga of your own undoing. The surgical 
    incision has to be reversed and that is what has happened here 
    today. You see, we think in one language and express ourselves in 
    another language — indeed we struggle to express ourselves in 
    another language.
