A short story by Muhd Ibrahim Muhsin
Gwaggo cleared her throat-emulating 
    her master's action. "The story begins when we were 
    youngsters, now about five decades ago. Surely I won't use her 
    right name because she's still alive, thus 
    , let me call her Ummi, as the 
    house-hold name in Hausa 
    communities, was betrothed to a young man by the name of Audu.
"Audu?" she tried to recall the exact name. "Yes 
     Audu."
Audu, whose occupation was farming, inherited from his father 
    ; a farmer and also great scholar in 
    our village then.
Someday, a fortnight left for their wedding to take place 
    . One of the eminent wealthy men 
    living in the village heard about it 
    , through one of his informers. He said he was the one who 
    this girl would be married to.
Ummi was a pretty, very elegant girl but 
    her parents were incredibly poor. Thus, as soon as this opulent 
    idol came in her life, Audu's story was completely demolished 
    and built himself up to that for marrying her. Subsequently, people 
    started criticizing parents of Ummi
    , over their ruthless decision of 
    giving their daughter's hand in marriage for worldly thing not 
    to her initial fiancé, who is poor.
The damnedest thing is that; 
    Basara, the illegitimate husband-to-be of Ummi
     was wonderfully a generous man in the face 
    of people of Shanya, particularly elders of the village. Therefore, 
    nobody thought of making a single reproachful expression on that
    ; thinking it wasn't his wish but 
    her parent's to get source of earning. Eventually, if you were 
    in his house, the story has a transcendental dichotomy.
To cap the story short, Ummi was at the end married to Basara. 
    She was, in the house a third and 
    callow one, so she was mercilessly treated like a skivvy. She spent 
    few weeks in such hardship and later divorced as a result of untrue 
    criticism of saying she was pregnant already for someone before the 
    wedlock.
"Hear me," he said horribly, "I don't like 
    any bastard child in my house. Take your dirty body and leave my 
    house immediately"
"Alhaji," she called, hiding his real name for honor, 
    "Wallahi it’s yours
     not any 
    body's." she 
    miserably, tearfully said.
"No! Immediately pack your ratty belongings and leave my 
    house before I returned."
"Oh-Alhaji
    -Please." She held the edge of 
    his big gown tearfully, begging.
He, without a single glance at her, went out harshly, pushing 
    her back disdainfully, "Stupid!" he roared.
Basara was, after Ummi had returned home, called by her elders. 
    He honored the invitation and came but 
    repeated what he said to her before.
"Basara," called one of her folks in a pitiful 
    sensation, "she supposed to get pregnancy. Two months are not 
    two days. Even in a day, a wife could be pregnant by her husband, 
    isn't it?" he asked, looking at Basara, "Don't 
    you know this?"
"I know, but I actually didn't." he grinned 
    wildly, "How can I sleep with that little crazy girl! God 
    forbid."
"Watch your language, Alhaji!" warned one old man 
    beside.
"Wallahi…he…did…severally" cried 
    Ummi from the back.
"Ah," he exploded, mouth agaped, "Am I a liar? Is 
    it what you teach her; disrespecting 
    people older than her and in such a company of aged faces? You 
    chit!" he groaned, pointing her.
"Its okay…that's 
    all…" said one of them.
They had no sort of power to convince him to accept the 
    pregnancy. They unwillingly 
    gave-up. And fact is; he was 
    the responsible. He only fulfilled his desire.
At the end of the day, Ummi was left the victim; severely 
    jeopardize, suffered, dishearten and with a pregnancy that people 
    remained regarding illegitimate. She finally gave birth to a baby 
    seen in community as bastard.
It was then that her parent realized their fault, regretted and 
    wished they had not done that to her. What a pity
    ?
"Why didn't they sue that 
    'rake' to 
    court?" asked Shahada, absolutely startled by the story.
"This is a nice idea. The magistrate courts we had then 
    couldn't deal with that case. No one would agree that Basara 
    could have done such a wretched thing. The man was a wolf in 
    sheep's cloth.
"What about the district head, didn't he get the 
    story?"
"Young girl…what was done couldn't be undone. So they, 
    though the parents alone, deserved. Materialism."
"May Allah avenge'em."
