My Early Childhood
Shouldn't my mother, Dejubee, be the first person I was 
    aware of in my life, beside my good self? Funny enough she was not 
    the first person I remember knowing in my childhood days at our 
    quarter, Ikoti, in Ilesha. It was my paternal grandfather, Loogun 
    Falekun, the Ashipa of Ikoti. The little I remembered about him was 
    the terrible pain he periodically inflicted on me in the process of 
    scraping my head bare of hair. Most of the pain was concentrated at 
    the back of my head, at the junction of the neck and the head. The 
    instrument of torture was a piece of steel, probably under a foot 
    long, but to my child's eye it was very long indeed.
Next I remember my paternal grandmother, Yeye Oni Eleran, the 
    third name indicating her occupation of trading in sheep and goats 
    in the market. She used to take me to the market at Itakogun. But 
    apparently she soon decided to wean me off her and the market. One 
    day she set off for the market without me. Shortly after, I decided 
    to follow after her. I had not gone far from home when I lost my 
    bearing, neither knowing the way forward to the market nor backward 
    to our house. I do not know what good Samaritan brought me to my 
    grandmother Yeye but I do recall the flogging I got for disobeying 
    Yeye and following after her to the market when she had told me to 
    stay at home.
Then what apparently was an important event to Yeye happened at 
    Ishokun, another quarter at Ilesha. Her younger daughter Aina had 
    her first baby, a boy. Yeye had to relocate temporarily to Ishokun 
    to look after my Aunt Aina and her baby, and she had to take me 
    along as no one would look after me at Ikoti without Yeye. On the 
    second or third night in our new place an army of soldier ants 
    invaded the house, to the consternation of everyone except the new 
    baby. That new baby is my cousin Afolabi Alatise. There was nobody 
    around educated enough to record the day he was born. I reckon I 
    was about four years old at the time, and since I was born in 1918, 
    I put his year of birth as 1922.
Something happened to my grandfather that made the whole 
    household go into festivities for three days. Grandfather was not 
    moving around but everybody was milling around him. It was a 
    continuing feasting, and we kids liked it. On the third day 
    Grandfather, who all the time was not talking or moving, was being 
    wrapped in several bales of cloth. Even young as I was I knew this 
    could not do him much good. Then when the body was being lowered 
    into a pit that had been dug apparently for the purpose, I had no 
    doubt in my mind that the people lowering Grandfather into the pit 
    were committing an unfriendly act and that therefore it was time 
    for those who loved him to rise up to the challenge. So I shouted 
    curses on the enemy, biting their ankles, till I was carried away 
    yelling, that I might allow people to complete the burial 
    ceremony.
That was how my grandfather Falekun died just as I was becoming 
    aware of him in my life. The title Loogun before his name suggested 
    he was a warrior by profession but I suspect that he did not rise 
    above the middle ranks as did Ogedengbe, Arimoro and Obe. Indeed my 
    elder cousin Abe Fakuwajo told me this unedifying story about him 
    which must have been told by Grandfather himself or by Abe's 
    father who was Grandfather's elder brother. On one occasion 
    when the enemy had sacked the town of Ilesha and men, women and 
    children were being led away to captivity by the conquering army, 
    my grandfather was being dragged away by a man when they met a 
    horseman of the conquering army who forcibly wrested my grandfather 
    from his first captor and forcibly seated him on his horse and rode 
    away. The man deprived of a slave dared not complain to anybody as 
    it was battle justice and the horseman was the stronger of the 
    two.
My grandfather riding at the back of his new master noticed that 
    he had placed his sword in its sheath behind him. He carefully 
    pulled out the sword and with one stroke dealt his new master a 
    mortal blow. Then he alighted from the horse, beckoned to the other 
    man who was still smarting from the unfair dispossession of a 
    slave, and surrendered to him both himself and the horse. The 
    amazed master took him eventually to Sagainu his home-town. There 
    he made him his head slave in recognition of his loyalty to him and 
    his integrity in the battlefield at Ilesha.
Grandfather Loogun Falekun came back to Ilesha via Abeokuta 
    about 1890, after the famous Kiriji War and the treaties of peace 
    and friendship between the British Government and the Kings of the 
    subtribes of Yorubaland that had taken part in the devastating war. 
    He had married Yeye Oni at Sagamu. On his way back to Ilesha after 
    the war he had stayed for some time in Abeokuta where my aunt 
    Fayombo and my father were probably born.
Grandfather certainly had other wives before and after marrying 
    Grandmother Oni but these other wives had only daughters and only 
    Oni had two sons Aluko and Ayeni. Another wife, Adenike, senior to 
    Oni, also had an only son Jegede, who was older than my father.
I do not know how large my grandfather's extended family 
    was at Ilesha before they were scattered by war and he ended up in 
    slavery at Sagamu. At the ingathering after the Kiriji War not many 
    people turned up at Ilesha. They had either died in slavery or only 
    a few members of the household went into slavery.
There were Falekun, his elder brother a diviner by profession, 
    and a sister. Among the relatives that I was told of are Turton, 
    popularly known as Akowe Ogburuu, and Teju Oyeleye's mother at 
    Ogbon Agbede near Ikoti.
The one woman who gave me much food and much attention during my 
    grandfather's funeral festivities I came to know as my mother 
    Dejubee. I must have seen her before then but it was only at the 
    funeral that I was aware of her existence. She and my father Aluko 
    had come back from Ojoku, a village near Offa in Ilorin Province, 
    to take part in my grandfather's funeral. And after the 
    funeral they decided to take me back with them to Ojoku where they 
    were Osomalo traders.
The first leg of some twenty odd miles journey was from Ilesha 
    to Oshogbo and I did it partly strapped to the back of my mother, 
    and I partly rode on the shoulders of my father and my uncle Ayeni. 
    Between Oshogbo and Apata Aje Station I rode on a train for the 
    first time. I was amazed and confused when I was hustled out of the 
    train at the last station, my father telling me that we were at 
    journey's end. I was not aware that the train had left Oshogbo 
    at all. Apparently the peculiar noise of the locomotive engine 
    signified motion in the train! I again rode on the back of my 
    mother and the shoulders of my father and my uncle for the few 
    miles from the railway station to the village of Ojoku.
I reckon I was four years old when my paternal grandfather died 
    at Ilesha, and I followed my parents to their trading village in 
    Ojoku. When later I came to know that I was born in 1918, I 
    concluded that my grandfather died in 1922 and that I also came to 
    Ojoku in 1922. And I also guessed my cousin Afolabi was born at 
    Ilesha in the same year 1922.
At Ojoku my father and mother were engaged in the Osomalo 
    business. Periodically Father would travel to Lagos by train taking 
    with him a wagon load of yams which he would sell there. With the 
    money realised from the sale he would buy several bales of 
    different kinds of cloth which he would bring back by train to 
    Apata Aje the nearest station to Ojoku. These he and mother sold in 
    Ojoku and the surrounding villages. Since the village man or woman 
    could not afford to purchase on the basis of immediate cash 
    payment, he or she readily agreed to buy on credit involving 
    repayment by monthly 
    installments. But the Osomalo was usually before the 
    stipulated time, back asking to be paid his money and vowing never 
    to sit nor to stand but to squat down on his legs till he was paid 
    his debt. The debtor dared not complain to the police of Osomalo 
    harassment because for a little bribe the police was sure to side 
    with the Osomalo and cause further and harsher harassment to the 
    debtor.
Mother prepared a quick breakfast for the family and quickly 
    disappeared on her round of the adjoining villages with her bale of 
    cloths. My father at the same time went to his own group of 
    villages. So the two of them went on their business, leaving me, 
    their four year old son, to take care of myself as best as I could 
    till they returned for mother to prepare a meal in the evening. I 
    am probably doing my parents a disservice now in reporting that 
    they did not take enough care of me. My four year old mind probably 
    forgot what good arrangement they provided for me but stored up 
    only the hunger before they arrived back in the evening. Also I 
    might have been five and not four and was thought to be more able 
    to look after myself than a four year old. In any case in the 
    company of village kids I soon learnt bad habits, like pilfering 
    coins from under my mother's mat and buying groundnuts with 
    the loot.
A few years before she died my mother visited me and my wife 
    Bisi in Lagos and told us this story of my days in Ojoku. I had 
    gone to buy groundnuts with a coin of denomination very much higher 
    than a child could legitimately come by. The groundnut woman 
    suspected that I must have stolen it, probably from my mother, 
    accepted the coin and gave me a parcel of groundnuts. She then 
    followed me to my mother. She explained to her what had happened 
    and returned the coin to my grateful mother.
As I grew older I also grew wilder. Father brought for me from 
    Lagos a copy of the Yoruba primer called ABD, the first three 
    letters of the Yoruba alphabet. He himself tried to teach me. He 
    aIso made me promise to learn it instead of following the village 
    urchins when he and mother had gone to sell textiles in the 
    villages, but after the newness had worn off I threw the new book 
    aside to follow my fellow urchins. No amount of thrashing from my 
    father and sobbing from my mother would make me change my ways.
My parents were horrified to learn after returning from their 
    rounds one evening of my involvement with the Eshu Shrine. There 
    was an Eshu Shrine in nearly every household in Ojoku, and at each 
    Shrine was palm oil, cowries and onini coins. Our gang would go to 
    a house when the occupants were not in and steal the oninis and the 
    cowries, wipe the food remnants and oil from them, and would go 
    round the corner to buy groundnuts with the apparently lean money. 
    The groundnut seller did not suspect the source of our money. If 
    she did she would have fainted!
My father gave me a thorough beating which made my mother cry 
    ever so much. I really did not see what distressed them so much 
    about me. In their wisdom they decided that I must leave Ojoku 
    before I grew to become a perfect vagabond. I could not go back to 
    Ilesha because they thought my grandmother Oni Eleran would be 
    unable to cope with me. My mother came out with the answer. In her 
    father's village, Oko-Igbo, there was a Village teacher cum 
    Catechist who lived in her father's compound. They would send 
    me to him at Oko-Igbo and he would knock some sense into my little 
    head.
The next phase of my childhood started therefore with the 
    village Teacher at Oko Igbo, a village near Ilesha. Subsequent 
    events made me think that the year was 1924, not 1923. You see I 
    was very young then and I knew no nothing about dates.
The Village Teacher, who I came to know as Funlayo, lived with 
    his nephew Folayan in two of the many rooms in the compound of my 
    maternal grandfather, Ademoroti Sonibare. Here my 
    grandfather's children, some married and some unmarried, and 
    other relatives, lived in a large household into which Funlayo the 
    outsider fitted fairly well. He was a teacher about sixteen to 
    eighteen years old. His nephew Folayan was some three years older 
    than I. The arrival of my goodself was easily managed by my 
    doubling with Folayan in one of the two rooms at night.
