Back to the land of the animals
The lion was chewing grass, and vowing as he chewed. He lay 
    awkwardly on the dying pasture lying waste in 
    the suburbs. The pastures was his secret place, a place he had made 
    sure no other animal could easily stumble into. He had been on 
    grass for over thirty days now, and the result showed on his sparse 
    mane and wobbly legs, his eyes sunk in deep, and nausea hung on his 
    throat. He made the chewing easy for himself by thinking of goats. 
    The goats are a terrible people in all aspects he thought. Grass 
    chewing was vile.
He could understand a lion going on grass for a few days due to 
    the incessant hunger that lived with them, but he could never 
    understand a group of animals who subsequent to seeing the various 
    kinds of appetizing meat in the universe decided to be vegetarians. 
    Such breeds were too disgraceful to dwell with the breed of lions. 
    It was better for a grass-eater to die 
    , than a proud lion to eat grass. That was the reason, 
    right there while he chewed the grass; he was vowing to go against 
    the old law that prohibited goat eating.
1._(1) any person 
    , engaged in trapping, killing, 
    cutting, cooking, eating, or in collection, distribution, and 
    custody of the meat from any animals, any animal from the rabbit, 
    squirrels, goats, dogs, and lions shall be 
    guilty of an offence and shall be liable to death by stone 
    
(2)Any person, who knowingly 
    consumes the flesh of any of these animals, in whatever manner, 
    without being lawfully authorized to do so, shall be guilty of an 
    offence and shall be liable to death by rope 
    
(3)Where an offence under subsection (1) or (2) is committed by 
    a child or young animal, the child or young person is liable and 
    must have his teeth removed and his tongue sliced 
    
(4) Animals are not allowed to predate 
    , an animal could only kill a prey stronger than itself, 
    this means, a rabbit could kill a squirrel, a squirrel could kill a 
    goat, a goat could kill a dog, and a dog could kill a lion and a 
    lion could kill a buffalo.
The lion knew the law by heart, 
    because he had made it. Those were the days when he was an 
    administrator, and at the head of 
    farming in the land, he had farms full 
    of buffalos, he had the dogs who 
    worked for him, business was good 
    then, and those days were nothing to be compared to the present. 
    Now  hunger was with them , his family died of hunger and he was in the dying 
    pastures, chewing grass.
He spat out the grass that filled his mouth and listened very 
    warily to the rustling of the leaves around him , for the first time since he discovered this new food, he 
    was uneasy. The leaves cackled behind him and he had an uneasy 
    feeling an animal was watching him. Making sure no 
    leave was sticking from his mouth, 
    he began to growl. The growling, he thought, would scare away any 
    of the smaller animals. He growled until he got weary, and sure 
    that no small animal could stand the hideous sounds he had created, 
    he returned to grass eating.
But the rustling did not stop, 
    rather he heard the grass rattle behind him 
    , his blood froze as he tried to 
    imagine whom it was, walking up 
    behind him. It was humiliating, to 
    be caught chewing grass, like a goat. Any proud lion would have 
    sworn rather to die of hunger. He was not a proud lion 
    , he was a coward, afraid of death by 
    hunger and he had been caught in his cowardice.
“Good day sir!” came a goat’s voice from 
    behind; the voice was that of respect mixed with mockery. Relief 
    flooded through the lion. A goat was what he least expected. He had 
    thought his growling would scare any animals of such breed. He had 
    imagined it was one of his sons, walking up to humiliate him, or 
    any of the rich dogs who now ruled the suburbs 
    , the fact that it was a goat made him realize how hungry 
    and weak he was. A goat , was less 
    than  and at the same time more than he had 
    expected, now that the goat had caught 
    him, he would be more than justified to eat the him.
“Good morning vassal 
    ” he replied with equal contempt. Now the goat walked up until it 
    stood a respectful distance before him. There was no fear in the 
    goat, just respect , the lion had once 
    been rich and powerful, and though he was quite a nobody now, it 
    was difficult to forget totally, 
    the power he once wielded.
“My lord, are you chewing grass,” the goat asked 
    , it was not a question 
    , His tone was insulting 
    , the lion was surprised at the direct 
    approach, there was no fear whatsoever 
    in the goat, of being eaten 
    , the animal-eating law had been 
    enforced very effectively until now. The lion decided to surprise 
    him equally.
“Yes, poor vassal, I’m chewing grass and grass is tasteless 
    , that is why I have decided to eat 
    you ” the lion loved the effect his statement 
    had on the goat; the mischief in his eye was quickly replaced with 
    fear. The lion looked hungry; the goat did not for a moment doubt 
    him. The lion began to come closer, and the goat inched backward, 
    his bones overcome with shivers. He knew the lion was going to eat 
    him, but he decided to try to talk his way out of it.
“Eat me? my lord”
“Yes, vassal” the lion replied 
    , he kept coming forward 
    , while the goat moved back 
    , the lion was enjoying the game.
“but sir, you were part of them who made the constitution, and 
    you know what it says …” the goat said 
    , he wanted to say more, but his teeth clattered so much 
    that he could not bring himself to say another word.
The lion laughed aloud “it is common 
    knowledge that goats are stupid, but I did not know that they were 
    so stupid” now he was enjoying himself so 
    much.
“Goats are not so stupid, my lord” the 
    goat said timidly. He was afraid this would upset the lion 
    , yet he could think of nothing else 
    to say now and he had a feeling that if something was ever going to 
    get him out of this situation, it was going to be something he 
    said.
The goat’s reply humored the lion and he instantly decided to 
    make it into a game. He was going to eat him anyway, yet he said 
     “aha! 
    Goat’s are not so stupid  right, 
    vassal”
The goat started to stammer a reply.
“Prove to me that goats are not so stupid” 
    the lion said “and I would spare your life 
    ”.
The goat had not expected this; the lion had looked hungry 
    enough to eat him right away.
“What is it you want me to do? My lord” he 
    asked
“Nothing” the lion said, laying back on 
    all fours on the pastures “just answer my 
    questions” 
    .
That is too simple, the goat thought 
    , it was the lion never intended eating him or still 
    intended to do so, the goat was yet to 
    decide, yet he kept talking to the lion 
    , in a bid to get more time.
“Listen attentively vassal 
     because I won’t repeat,” the lion continued, 
    “first, why did we make the constitution”
The goat was trying hard to stop his clattering teeth 
    , and flying thoughts. He too went 
    down on all fours, pretending to relax. He thought it necessary to 
    pretend he believed the lion would not eat him 
    afterall.
“Take your time,” the lion warned, “because I would eat you at 
    the first wrong answer” 
    .
The goat began to think carefully about what the lion said and 
    in no time came up with the right answer.
“Because them other lions was eating them dogs, and you don’t 
    love them lions eating them dogs because them dogs are important to 
    you business” 
    the goat answered hurriedly. He lived in the suburbs 
     too, and he was aware of some of their 
    politics
“That is a correct and honest answer but 
    also very simple. Vassal, not so” the lion 
    said, standing on all fours, and 
    starting to walk around the goat on two
“So” said the goat, staring at the grass 
    , he was afraid to stare at the hunger 
    in the lions eyes 
    
“The next one vassal 
    is, what went wrong with that constitution 
    ,” the lion asked.
The goat did not hesitate this time 
    , he said hastily 
“Because them buffalo cease wandering into our suburbs and you 
    lion cannot find food to eat” at this the 
    lion began to laugh
“Don’t be shallow goat  that is not what went wrong , I 
    would give you one more chance to answer
    , what went wrong 
     vassal” the lion 
    growled. His tone was high and his voice was angry. The goat 
    thought again beginning to shiver because he 
    knew he was going to find no more reason 
    , that was all he knew about the matter. Politics in the 
    suburbs was only for the lions , he 
    heard very little of it , the goats 
    were not interested in complicated matters, and politics was 
    complicated. Yet  he pretended to think, and 
    the lion hummed tunelessly as he waited.
