Windfall
The news on the national radio was clear, and the reader was 
    deliberate, with a tinge of irony in his mellifluous voice:
"The government of the Federal Republic today announced a 
    wage increase for all public servants."
Officer Oba was sitting cozily in his police cruiser when he 
    heard the news. His heart almost jumped out of his body. He was 
    excited, he was shaking all over with joy, he couldn't wait to 
    get home and talk to his wife about his plans for the new money.
"Lord, that cannot be true! Impossible! So, at last, at 
    long last, I can buy my motorbike. At last...," he sighed.
On the other side of town, Daddy Alao, a Senior Clerk with over 
    forty years' experience on the job, had just finished 
    listening to the 12 o'clock report on his pint-sized 
    transistor set. Tears welled in his eyes. He did not make any 
    effort to hold them back, even though he knew that his junior 
    workers were crowded round the radio. He was not ashamed to cry; 
    for, how better to end his days in the service of the nation, than 
    with a hundred per cent increase in his salary? The new government 
    had expressed its commitment to providing the needs of the 
    commoners, and he had often said exactly the same thing to his 
    co-workers, and his wife, and his children. With the new law, every 
    employee would be able to live, instead of merely existing.
Daddy's mind raced through the years, back to his earliest 
    days as a Class Four graduate employed as a clerical officer in his 
    home town. How proud he was! His father and mother, God bless their 
    departed souls, used to parade him every Sunday at church, 
    presenting him to their friends as their oyinbo, 
    that is, a white man. He could have blushed if he had been white! 
    But he was inwardly elated to be so highly respected by family and 
    friends alike. By obtaining his Class Four diploma, he had reached 
    the pinnacle of academic excellence. There was no holding him back. 
    Once employed in the district office, his eyes were set on 
    attaining another high rung: his own desk and chair at the national 
    Secretariat in the capital.
The journey to the top was rough. He lost his parents soon after 
    graduation, and his first wife and two children also passed away. 
    Nonetheless, he was not discouraged. He just lived out his destiny, 
    never doubting the Almighty's plans for him. His transfer to 
    the capital was abrupt, and there were still a few individuals back 
    home who thought he had either used some black magic, or bribed his 
    way out of the regional office. The note from the District Officer 
    was terse: "You are being transferred to the national 
    Secretariat effective a week from today. Good luck."
So, there he was at the capital, first sharing a desk with three 
    other employees, but finally having his own desk.
Daddy's comportment and attire hardly changed over the 
    years: Always calm and collected with barely a smile hidden at the 
    left corner of his mouth, he donned a white suit with a white shirt 
    to match, brown tie and shoes, and a white helmet that he removed 
    only indoors. The helmet was given to him by an old District 
    Officer for whom he used to run errands back in his home town. He 
    acquired his nickname from his first days at the district office. A 
    colleague looked at him fixedly, shook his head, smiled, and called 
    him "Daddy."
"What do you mean by 
    dat? I 
    am only twenty!"
"Ah, ah, 
    dat's what we all say. Even when we are 
    fifty, we still like to call ourselves twenty! Just like me, I have 
    three different ages: one for my school records, one for my job 
    and, of course, one for my family who are not even sure which is 
    which."
"I don't care! I know I am twenty, 
    and dat's de 
    trut."
"Anyway, don't be annoyed, I call you Daddy because 
    your suit and helmet are very special. When you came in just now, 
    you reminded me of my 
    fader in his days as a Senior Clerk. His helmet 
    was given to him by a colonial officer. Your own looks so much like 
    his."
The nickname stuck. As the years passed by, Daddy, too, came to 
    cultivate some liking for it. Many younger elements used it to 
    address him, as a sign of respect, and who would refuse to be 
    respected? No doubt, others saw in him the symbol of a dead period, 
    particularly since the style of his suit did not evolve with the 
    times. All the same, every new employee was sent to his room to see 
    neatness in person, so as to aspire to such heights later in the 
    service. The road to Daddy's room was always overcrowded. 
    Apart from the heavy turnover of employees, which naturally 
    increased the number of seekers of the epitome of neatness, there 
    was a growing following for Daddy's wisdom and expertise in 
    public service regulations. General Orders, 
    G.O., in popular office language, an old fat book 
    filled with every article of public service rules, was kept under 
    lock and key in Daddy's office, and the symbol of decorum and 
    discipline knew just about all the articles in the text.
"According to section 47 sub-section C regulation 27 
    paragraph 5, every officer appointed at the level of Clerk Grade II 
    is eligible for a 10% increase after two years 
    of service."
" Daddy, Daddy, I knew you would not fail me, I just knew 
    it! Now I can go to my Head of Division and tell him to recommend 
    me."
Daddy was brought back to reality by a wild laughter from across 
    the room. He literally stood up from his seat.
"Hein, hein, did someone say someting?"
"No," replied Oye, his immediate junior officer. 
    "Daddy, you appeared to be dreaming. You were crying, too. 
    Hope nothing?"
"Oh, no, not at all. Were you not listening to 
    de 
    radio? De government, I 
    told you boys dis is de greatest government ever, dey are giving 
    all of us a big raise. A hundred per cent raise! 
    Double salary from now on! What a way to reward me for all 
    dese 
    years! If you saw tears in my eyes, Oye, it is tears of joy, you 
    really cannot understand... You cannot understand at all at 
    all!"
"But, Daddy," shot out another voice, "you are 
    making a big mistake o! I tell you, this government is not better 
    than the rest of them. You will see, all the cash money you are 
    weeping about, is already being eyed by our greedy merchants and 
    market women."
Everyone in the room became suddenly silent. The speaker was the 
    latest arrival at the office. His full name was Smart Babington 
    Alexander, but people called him Smarty, or 
    The Great. A Higher School Certificate holder, 
    he succeeded rather quickly in alienating himself from both his 
    colleagues and superiors.
"I am only here to while away the time," he used to 
    tell whoever cared to listen. "I'm going to the States 
    come September, so I don't give a damn about this stupid 
    place."
Such pomposity could not but arouse the ire of most of the other 
    workers. For many, the Secretariat was a dead end, and the Civil 
    Service a terminal case of cancer. Their job constituted a point of 
    no return. Theirs was to be a long life of waking up at six in the 
    morning, washing up, choking themselves with a tie, and slowly 
    dropping into their faded woolen suits. At the office, they would 
    look at the same files, and see the same tired faces, like 
    reflections in a many-sided mirror. If they left the Secretariat, 
    it would only be to return to the regional office, a setback not 
    happily anticipated by any of them. Many abhorred the monotonous 
    ride in the over-crowded, capricious buses taking them to and from 
    work. They detested even more the long, uneventful hours inside the 
    office where they had to fight for space with files, flies, and 
    cockroaches. But the alternative to all that was to stay at home. 
    Home was hell, with the wife always nagging about the lack of 
    funds, the emaciated children staring you in the face and asking 
    unspoken questions, and the boredom and nothingness populating the 
    whole diseased atmosphere. It was, indeed, a most welcome event 
    when dawn showed its happy, but sad face, cutting short the night 
    filled with its hallucinations and endless discussions with the 
    wife, and of a non-existent future.
Smarty was naturally the latest of the many ills that awaited 
    the workers at Daddy's office. Down to the last messenger, 
    they all tried their best to accommodate the braggart. They 
    pretended not to listen to his harsh remarks, but it was always 
    apparent that their pretext, their silence, was a hollow mask 
    concealing their eagerness to have him explain himself further, and 
    their guilt that whatever he said had a ring of truth to it. They 
    could not ignore what the young man had to say. Daddy had once 
    advised them in Smarty's absence to desist from having any 
    confrontation with him. "Silence," said the wise old man, 
    "is de best answer 
    for a fool."
This time, it was Daddy himself who was guilty of answering a 
    fool.
"Smarty, just shut up and try to listen to what we are 
    telling you!"
"Daddy, it's you that should see with me, because I 
    know, and you know, that I am right, as usual. As I was saying 
    before I was rudely interrupted, all this money is only going to 
    cause trouble for everybody."
"All right, 
    Smart Head, let me ask you sometin. Which government before now has 
    done anytin for de common man of dis 
    nation?"
"None, absolutely none! But my contention is, that this 
    one's offer of an increment in salaries is nothing but a 
    political game."
"Well, politics or no politics, I assure you 
    dat dis increase is de 
    best tin dat has happened to us in a long time. 
    You young men of today, you just have no respect for your elders. 
    Some of you always tink 
    dat you know everytin. You will see, just be 
    patient, just keep listening to 
    de 
    radio, and you will see."
Oye whispered something to one of those sitting near 
    Daddy's desk. Then, he shouted out at Smarty:
"Why don't you go to your America, and stop being 
    stupid!!!"
Smarty pretended not to hear. He started to hum a song, turned 
    on his heels, and swaggered out of the room, his hands stuck in his 
    hip pockets. Oye could only hiss loudly after him.
Officer Oba was on his way back home after a long day. But the 
    new money had eradicated from his mind all the usual thoughts of 
    boredom and fatigue. He rode his Raleigh bicycle unusually fast 
    that evening.
"Hello, captain."
"Oga sah, how 
    you dey dis even?"
"Esis sah, mah 
    broda say he dey come see una tonite o."
The greetings and messages went on and on, as Officer Oba, a 
    veritable Very Important Personality in the neighborhood, sped down 
    the street toward his one-bedroom flat.
Sola was waiting at the verandah, as usual. She knew exactly 
    when her man would ride up to the door. After preparing his meal 
    and setting the table, she would go and take a bath, change into 
    something attractive -revealing would be a more appropriate word- 
    and take her place on the chair outside.
She was yet to hear the good news about the new money.
Officer Oba reached home. He turned the corner with a flurry. He 
    let his left foot drop to ground-level, bent his body and the front 
    of the machine to the left and put on the brakes ever so slightly. 
    The booted foot dragged along the ground, raising a cloud of dust 
    on the untarred road. He rang the bell of his machine three times 
    before coming to a screeching stop.
Sola jumped upon him with glee.
"Darling, I have missed you all day long."
He gave her a smile filled with self-satisfaction and replied, 
    "I know, I know... Did you hear the good news?"

