'That's all right.' Kehinde, too, started to use 
    her assistant bank manager voice. 'I was doing some 
    soul-searching earlier on, but must have drifted off to sleep. My 
    nerves have been taut the past weeks. Now that I'm here, I 
    feel almost relaxed and at peace. As if it's all out of my 
    hands.'
The girl said nothing, just looked. Kehinde did not mind doing 
    the talking. She wanted to talk, talking was like a prayer.
'I have to go through with it. My husband will kill me if I 
    don't. But really, inside, I'm confused. Part of me 
    doesn't want any more children, another part wants to keep 
    this one, just this one. I think it's because I was born one 
    of twins I always have to weigh things this way and that before I 
    make a decision. Can you understand that?'
The girl nodded. Kehinde was surprised at herself, confiding in 
    a strange girl, almost ten years her junior. She came from a 
    culture in which being older meant being wiser, commanding respect. 
    This girl should have been crying on her shoulder, and instead, 
    Kehinde herself was talking shamelessly. The girl just sniffed.
'My husband and I are going back home, back to Nigeria. 
    That's why we don't want the baby. We have a year or so 
    left here, so I need to work hard to save more money.'
The girl sat up gently. She arranged her pillow so that Kehinde 
    could see her more clearly. Her eyes were red rimmed, as if 
    she'd been crying for days. She gently pushed her brown hair 
    away from her face. Every gesture she made was slow and calculated. 
    Furrowing her brows, she peered at Kehinde, who felt more guilty 
    than ever. But she could not stop herself. 'We have been here 
    eighteen years, you see. My husband is the first son, and even 
    though we've been here all this time, we still have to go 
    home. So we don't want this child. That's why I'm 
    here.'
The girl lay back on the bed as if she was going to start 
    sobbing again. Kehinde felt like crying out, 'Say something to 
    me. I don't care if you're white or young enough to be my 
    younger half-sister. Just say something to me.' She took a 
    good hold of herself and asked aloud, 'Are you all 
    right?'
The girl nodded, arranging the bed clothes over herself, and did 
    not cry.
The nurse's footsteps padded on the corridor. She came in 
    and asked, 'All right, ladies?' in a sugary voice. The 
    plastic smile was unwavering, but she was looking tired. Kehinde 
    could see a faint line on her brow, and wondered how old she was. 
    She left them each with a nightcap.
'Makes sleep so much easier,' she said brightly, to no 
    one in particular. She was obviously used to patients not 
    responding to her empty, honeyed words. Taking out something that 
    looked like a tiny calculator from her apron pocket, she pointed it 
    at the window and pressed. The curtains swished closed. 
    Kehinde's mouth opened when she saw the miracle the little 
    calculator could perform. If her room-mate was surprised, she did 
    not show it. 'Good night ladies,' the nurse intoned, as 
    she padded out of the room.
Kehinde turned off her bedside lamp, pulled the sheets up to her 
    chin and said, 'Good night.' Then she added, They call me 
    Kehinde. I don't know your name.'
A long silence followed, broken eventually by the girl's 
    tight little voice.
'Goodnight, Kehinde. Thank you for talking to me. My name 
    is Leah. I want my baby badly, but I can't afford to keep it. 
    I have no home, I have no job, I've dropped out of university, 
    and I'm not even sure I love David. I don't want to trap 
    him. That would be unfair.'
It was Kehinde's turn to be silent.
'What makes me angry is this. Why am I feeling so sad about 
    it all?' Leah's voice was a cry from the heart.
Kehinde wanted to say so many things, but Leah had turned off 
    her light. Words were unnecessary anyhow, as the nightcap was 
    taking effect. God only knew what the nurse with honeyed words had 
    put in it. Whatever it was, it succeeded in making Kehinde's 
    mouth unable to say what her heart was thinking.
'It won't be much, Mrs Okolo, just a prick and you 
    won't feel a thing.' Feeling . . . fear, clutching my 
    heart. Swooning, noises in my ears. Children's voices as we 
    play in the street, under the eyes of the bread, groundnut and 
    sugarcane sellers from the yard, displaying their wares on the 
    pavement. We are playing a game of families. Olu is refusing to 
    play mother, because her mother has died, gone away, neglecting Olu 
    and her brother Akintunde. Each time we remember, we are silent 
    with sorrow.
'No, no, Malechi,' the big girl from next door is 
    saying. 'Olu has no mother, so she can play father.'
'Why would she play father, when she's not a 
    boy?' I ask angrily.
'Because. This is a play family, not a real one. And in 
    real life, she has no mother,' Elofune, Malechi's sister, 
    defends Olu, and everyone glares at me.
'Well, what am I going to play then? Can I play 
    mother?'
They all laugh, pointing at me. 'Just because you have no 
    father, you think a family must always have a mother. But there are 
    many mothers in a compound, so you can have a family without a 
    particular mother.'
'Yes, but some families have no father, too,' I say in 
    my stubborn way, my anger rising as I remember that I still do not 
    know who my real mother is. 'All right, all right,' says 
    Malechi, wondering what this circular argument is all about. 
    'You, Kehinde, play mother, because you have no father and 
    Olu, you play father as you have no mother.'
As usual I will not let the matter rest. I want to go on 
    arguing, as if the more I argue, the more likely the enigma of my 
    birth will be explained to me. My mind is not on the game. 
    Olu's mother died. Where is my father, did he die too? I look 
    at the adults, but they are talking amongst themselves. I am left 
    with a familiar feeling of helplessness.
The moon goes behind a cloud, and the fire flies become more 
    audacious. The Hausas who live down the road and buy food from us 
    until late at night have all bought their food. We are tired of 
    playing, and are now telling stories, but our songs are dying in 
    our throats. The night wind is cold, after the airless heat of the 
    day. Those awake enough to answer the call songs of the stories are 
    answering them half-heartedly. We are beginning to fall asleep. 
    Aunt Nnebogo calls in her low voice, 'Kehinde, don't fall 
    asleep yet. Take the unsold groundnuts inside and then go to the 
    backyard and pee before you go in.'
'Yes Mama," I reply. I do not get up immediately 
    because our room is at the back of the house. To get there we have 
    to pass the room of the landlord and his people, and walk along a 
    dark corridor, with no electric light.
'Are you coming?' I ask sleepily.
'Why? Are you frightened of the dark? Only witches are 
    frightened of the dark.'
The statement shocks me into wakefulness. Other parents drag or 
    carry their children inside at night. I want Aunt Nnebogo to do the 
    same, as if she were really my mother. I want to show that I'm 
    like the other children in the yard.
Inside our room, darkness wells around us like water. I feel 
    bold enough to ask a question under its protection. 'Mama, is 
    my Papa dead like Olu's father?'
'Who told you that? Your father is in Sokoto with your 
    brothers and sisters.'
I sit up quickly on my mat. I am curious about me. 'My 
    brothers and sisters? Me?' My voice wavers. So I do have 
    brothers and sisters. 'Then why don't I see them? Why 
    don't I see my Papa and brothers and sisters? Malechi and 
    Elofunna and the others live with their Mama and 
    Papa, why do I just live with my Mama alone?'
Aunt Nnebogo yawns, and I hear the bed creak. She settles 
    herself comfortably for the night.
'Do you want to go to Sokoto?'
'Yes!' I reply eagerly, with the ingratitude of an 
    eleven-year-old.
'You will soon see your family, when you go to Ibusa for 
    your mother's burial. Her chi must be 
    laid to rest before your sister gets married.' Aunt 
    Nnebogo's bed stops creaking, and I know she will answer no 
    more questions. Children are not encouraged to talk directly to 
    adults. That she has allowed this little dialogue to take place at 
    all is just because we are alone in our room. She would have told 
    me about the trip to Ibusa sooner or later, but it is the first 
    time I am hearing of it and I am still not satisfied. Who is my 
    mother? This question torments me.
Sleep has left me. All my senses are alive as if it were the 
    beginning of a new day. But it is still dark. I make an elaborate 
    bed for my Taiwo. I heap together on one side all my covering 
    cloths, patting them loudly. I then make a hollow in the middle and 
    put her in it. That is the only comfortable part of the mat, but I 
    want my Taiwo to have it, so she can lie in comfort and listen to 
    all my mutterings and questions. I move about noisily as I make all 
    these preparations in the dark. I guess Aunt Nnebogo is not asleep, 
    but is lying awake thinking. I know I have hurt her, but I so badly 
    want to see my brothers and sisters in Sokoto. 'Wait until we 
    tell Malechi tomorrow,' I whisper to my Taiwo. 'Ha, ha, 
    you who have no father, uglying up our father. We have a father. He 
    lives in Sokoto.' I go on clucking to my wooden Taiwo until 
    quite late into the night.
I awake with a sensation of floating. It is bright daylight, and 
    I feel as if the light is going to blind me. It forms a tunnel of 
    oranges, blues and pinks, and I float through. As I go, the voice 
    of a solo singer drifts towards me, accompanied by the gentle 
    twanging of a kora. As I emerge, I see a 
    group of women, wearing white shift-like garments, smiling and 
    waving palm fronds as if in greeting. I hurry towards them, smiling 
    and waving. Then I see my father. He is as I remember him, his arms 
    open in welcome, urging me to come to him. Suddenly, I hear a low, 
    piercing cry. A woman whose face I cannot see comes towards me. She 
    holds her palm frond across my path to stop me. She has with her a 
    little girl whom I immediately recognise. My Taiwo. 'No,' 
    she says, 'go back. I have this one.' The woman indicates 
    the little girl, who does not smile. 'Your father was coming 
    to you, but you sent him back. He was coming to look after you 
    because he feels guilty about not looking after you the last time. 
    But you have refused to receive him. He wants you with him, but you 
    have to go back. You have to learn to live without him.'
I try to push past her to go to my father. I suddenly realise 
    how terribly I have missed him. I tell myself he did not deserve to 
    die in the way he did. I must make it up to him. On my left the 
    palm fronds still wave me on. The music intoxicates me, making me 
    giddy.
'Help me send her back.' The voice of the faceless 
    woman becomes a wail. Then the little girl smiles and waves, 
    mouthing a farewell. Slowly, one after the other, the women join 
    her, until my way is blocked, shutting me off from my father. I 
    hear my father's voice, louder than the rest, wailing. I never 
    like to hear men cry, least of all my father, whom I remember. I 
    cannot remember my mother. But the woman turns and I see her face, 
    a familiar face, like that of my sister Ifeyinwa. She holds out her 
    palm-frond like a spear. 'Your mother refuses to let you die! 
    Go back, my daughter. Your time is not yet.'
'Wake up, wake up, Kehinde!'
Kehinde's eyes fluttered open and focused on Albert's 
    anxious face. Next to him was Moriammo, her face expressing 
    concern. She leaned forward and said soothingly, 'Alby said he 
    was coming to collect you, so as your friend, I say I go come. Now 
    I am here. What do I find, enh? You shouting for your papa. Wake 
    up, my sister, make we go home!'
