The two lay exhausted on the massive bed. The sexual orgy was 
    worthy of inducing a deep sleep. It took a man of Felix's 
    physical fitness to satisfy the girl's nymphomaniac desire. He 
    cast another glance at her snuggled figure by his side. Iyabo was 
    already fast asleep and snoring. He turned her on her back and the 
    girl opened her eyes briefly.
"No, no, it's alright. I am tired," she 
    slurred.
Like any other girl, that was her way. Always saying 
    "no" to suggestions of acts they crave so much for. 
    Before that night's bout of love-making, she had said 
    "no, no" to his advances. But when his body came in 
    contact with her's, she had been reduced to jelly, urging him 
    to go on and on, leading him with expertise through the numerous 
    poses she had seen in pornographic films and magazines.
Felix wanted to sleep. The more he tried to get some sleep, the 
    more it eluded him. His mind was not at rest. It wandered through 
    his world of endless trouble, all his problems crowded into his 
    congested head; each trying to register its presence in his already 
    crowded mind.
Of all the troubles, the one that nagged him most was the 
    prospect of selling the house he lived in. His creditors were 
    already making bids to dispose it by public auction. His two 
    private cars were already gone; all sequestered by impatient 
    creditors. Now, he is only left with the old, battered and rickety 
    Peugeot 404 car. There was no money to pay for its repairs, and to 
    repair it would be adding to his anguish. Another creditor would be 
    right on his heels to have it sequestered.
This evening, there had been a knock on his door. It was the 
    court bailiff. He gave Felix the memorandum of service. Felix read 
    the content but it made no meaning to him.
"What is this?" he asked, frowning.
"That is the proof of service of the motion on you, 
    sir," the pleasant-looking fellow explained.
Felix dutifully signed on the dotted line. Immediately after the 
    bailiff left him, he opened the envelope. Most of the content was 
    like Greek to him. But at least, he understood what it was all 
    about. The name of his divorced wife appeared on it.
Before this time, Felix Dumeh was married with five children. 
    Four years ago, his wife packed her bag and baggage and left their 
    matrimonial home. She went to court and claimed that their marriage 
    had broken down irretrievably. The Judge agreed with her lawyer. 
    She asked for the cost of maintaining herself and the children. The 
    Judge awarded her enormous sum of money. Felix paid the cost for 
    two years. For the two subsequent years he paid nothing.
The papers brought by the bailiff required him to appear in 
    court on the application of his divorced wife to explain why he 
    should not be sent to prison for flouting the order of the 
    Court.
His first thought was to go to his lawyer, Mr. Ifeanyi 
    Eke. He remembered that he was owing the lawyer too. He had told 
    Felix that he was not going to represent him again in any matter 
    till he cleared up his arrears of legal fees.
He knelt down to pray, but discovered that he had forgotten how 
    to say the Lord's prayer. He had never prayed for the past 
    twenty-five years. He lay down on the bed again.
Felix Dumeh had never been a well-to-do man all his adult life. 
    He and poverty had not been strangers to each other all the while. 
    The fact is that he had been in the red more often than he had been 
    out of it. But he never realized it could be this bad. Things could 
    not have been so bad in the days he was under the shield of Chief 
    Taiwo Sam. But Felix had been rash. He failed to realize that 
    "a kid who picks a coin every now and then from a rain flood 
    should make incessant supplication for constant rainfall." If 
    he had maintained the old relationship with the Chief, he could not 
    have found himself in the present financial predicament. He had 
    been stubborn and separated from the Chief.
Now he began to realize that in the absence of Chief Taiwo Sam, 
    he was a mere courageous thief, with the brute force to kill and 
    plunder, but no brains and influence to manage the loot and take 
    care of loose ends.
Now he reflected on that peak period in his career when he had 
    proudly demanded his freedom from the Chief. It was not a very easy 
    task for a member of a mob to challenge the Mafiaso. But Felix had 
    done it. He had challenged Chief Taiwo Sam, the Mafiaso, a local 
    political heavy weight, ex-parliamentarian, and member of many 
    secret societies who blazed awe and terror from his face.
The Chief was astounded when Felix requested for his freedom.
"Is that so?" he asked; he did not direct the question 
    to Felix, or to anybody. "Is this the way you have come to 
    show your gratitude to me?"
But Felix strongly maintained his ground and gave the Chief the 
    shocker that five of the boys would be going with him.
The Chief laughed, but the laughter was superficial. It was a 
    caustic laughter. He pointed an accusing finger at Felix. "You 
    want to take the best of the boys with you, leaving me with only 
    the lame-brains?"
"But the five decided to go with me, I did not even 
    persuade them."
A heavy silence hung like an iron curtain between them. The 
    Chief had done some fast thinking. He had tried to cajole Felix to 
    stay back with fatter commissions but to no avail. He had then 
    tried to retain the loyalty of the other five.
If the Chief thought that the application of his soapbox oratory 
    was going to change the heart of the five young men, he was 
    mistaken. His speech was full of such words as "loyalty," 
    "respect", "homage," "reward" and 
    "prosperity."
The other five, Rafiu, Lasisi, Seidu, Balewa and Blankson had 
    sat still, listening to his tirade with obvious boredom. When the 
    Chief thought that he had won them back, he then released the big 
    question:-
Now, are you with me or are you going with the treacherous 
    Felix?"
The five were unanimous in their answer. They preferred going 
    with Felix. Bewildered and disappointed, Chief Taiwo Sam watched as 
    the five resolutely walked out of his house.
That was how a ten-year old alliance came to an end. The Chief 
    never believed that Felix was ever going to gang up against him.
He had met Felix for the first time early in his career as a 
    politician. He was then a young jobless school dropout. He had been 
    to a grammar school and proved himself a brilliant student. The 
    problem was that he could not keep his hands from pinching articles 
    that belonged to other students. When he conspired with some 
    hoodlums and removed the four tyres of the school principal's 
    car, he was finally expelled.
He loafed in the streets of Ibadan for a while, before be joined 
    Chief Taiwo's band of thugs. He was more educated than the 
    rest and rose rapidly within the ranks to become the Chiefs head 
    thug, often writing and reading correspondence for the illiterate 
    Chief. When he became the Chief thug, Chief Sam bought him a 
    car.
When many educated people in his area were too yellow to wade 
    into the hot waters of politics, Chief Taiwo Sam, despite his lack 
    of formal education, was courageous enough to take the plunge. 
    Obviously, he was not the darling of his people, but Sam had made 
    up his mind that nothing was going to stop him.
He put together a notorious band of thugs from the wretched 
    legions of unemployed youths and branded them the "Terror 
    Boys". The boys unleashed terror on his political opponents 
    and non-supporters. His opponents' houses were razed to the 
    ground, ballot boxes disappeared, people had their faces burnt with 
    acid, and many lost their lives under the rampage of the 
    "terror boys."
Chief Sam's style appealed to a host of other politicians 
    who came to him for help. Sam, who loved fishing in troubled waters 
    always obliged with the services of his thugs. He always got 
    handsome payment for hiring out their services and the boys got big 
    bonus too.
Chief Sam prospered under the ill winds of politics. Felix 
    prospered with him too.
But the Army had intervened and ousted the politicians and their 
    cohorts from power. Chief Sam saw himself at the head of a band of 
    rogues he had no resources to maintain: He was short of money. 
    Politics and thuggery had been his business. He had allowed his 
    cocoa farms to fall into rums in the days of easy money from 
    politics.
The Chief spent two long nights pondering over his predicament 
    and his mind struck an idea. He discussed it with his Chief thug, 
    Felix Dumeh, before broaching it to the other boys.
They were all summoned together in his compound. All were 
    seated. He walked in from the backyard of his house. He sat down 
    and adjusted his flowing attire, cleared his voice and began to 
    speak; picking his words, pausing every now and then to lay 
    emphasis. The Chief was a born orator. "Gentlemen," he 
    said, if you can remember very well, whenever we had a general 
    meeting of this nature, we all had a copious quantity of beer, 
    cigarettes and even weeds to go with it. But now, all those good 
    things of life are conspicuously absent. That speaks for itself. 
    That emphasises that things have become difficult. Politics has 
    been banned and there is no more work for me and you".
"By the grace of God," he continued "a solution 
    to our predicament has emerged".
"But before I let you into the solution my fertile 
    condition has come up with, I must stipulate one condition," 
    he said. "Now, if you stay here and listen to my proposition, 
    I will take it to mean that you are going by it, but if you want to 
    back out, this is the time for you to do so."
His eyes had turned complete scarlet. "And remember, 
    gentlemen," he continued, "once in, never out." He 
    stopped talking and looked around them that gathered before him. He 
    was not surprised when none of the boys stood up to go.
"Thank you, gentlemen," he bellowed. "You have 
    once again confirmed the implicit and total confidence you have in 
    me as your leader, and I will never disappoint you.
He made a sign to Felix, who collected some of the boys and went 
    inside the house. They brought out several cartons of beer, packets 
    of cigarettes and wraps of cannabis. There was great fellowship and 
    everybody caroused and was merry.
But for Felix Dumeh, none of them had any idea of what the Chief 
    was going to offer them. But they were already in it and none 
    wanted to be in a hurry to know what it was all about.
The carnival went far into the night. Then Felix raised his hand 
    and motioned for silence, and there was silence.
The Chief addressed them again. "Gentlemen," he said, 
    "this country belongs to all of us. It is our dear motherland 
    and it owes us a living. So long as you remain loyal to me, do my 
    biddings and abide by my rules and regulations, you will have no 
    reason to regret your association with me. We shall find our way 
    around. You need not be afraid of anybody or the police. I have 
    always known what they eat, and I shall always give it to them.
Let monkey chop and let baboon chop, and let palaver 
    short".
At this stage, none of the boys was in any doubt as to what 
    their new vocation was going to be. They liked it, for they were 
    all men of criminal dispositions.
Before they dispersed for the night, Chief Sam thought it 
    necessary to announce that Felix still remained his 
    second-in-command.
That was how a disappointed politician mobilized the wretched 
    human material within his reach and placed it in the crowded ways 
    of the inhabitants of one city.
Within one month, there were five reported cases of armed 
    robbery. An army officer was shot dead and his Mercedez Benz car 
    stolen, a band of masked gun-totting young men broke into a 
    supermarket and emptied the vault, and stories of missing cars took 
    up the public service announcement of the state owned radio 
    station. Armed marauders took over night life, and Ibadan turned 
    into a besieged city.
Chief Taiwo Sam became once again the celebrity of the town and 
    his name became the subject of admiration and conversation in the 
    city's social circles. He threw his big weight around and was 
    able to invest money from the loots in setting up hotels, brothels, 
    casinos, night dubs, Jackpot houses and other types of shady 
    enterprises. He became the first and sole organizer of crimes in 
    the town. His high-ranking friends in the police force gave him the 
    protection he needed, and he, in return "greased their 
    palms."
But that which is sweet can also turn bitter. Just a single pull 
    of the string by Chief Sam's able Lieutenant and everything 
    came crashing down. With Felix, Blankson, Seidu, Lasisi, Balewa and 
    Rafiu out of his service, he had lost the cream of his gang.
But the Chief was bent on winning back his men. They were the 
    lifeblood of his whole existence.
