What the Spirit Said
On the seventh second of the seventh minute of the seventh hour, 
    the seventh day of the seventh week, summing up the seventh month 
    metaphysically proven to be the astronomical seventh year of the 
    pregnancy of the moon. Upon the seventh toll of the bell hanging at 
    the cathedral tower- it was said that on that day, it was the hand 
    of the seventh spirit that tolled the bell- there, ushered in by 
    the seventh crow of the fattest cock bought on the seventh market 
    day- the seventh child (in chicken children) of his mother hen-. 
    Upon the exact seventh toll of the bell, a young man of about 
    twenty something years, say seven and twenty, was seen in the 
    company of some fellows grieving, defying the elemental forces of 
    July’s wetty chill, nearly giving up the ghost and would have very 
    willingly done so being beside himself with grief. The 
    down pour was heavy. 
    ‘His loss is colossal’ people would say, sighing 
    and shaking their heads. Afterwards they recommended him to the 
    mercies of the lord- in prayer. They all matched, gloomy and wet in 
    honour of the departed. ‘Would he survive? Can he survive 
    this ? ‘ They would ask themselves in silence as they 
    moved on with their lives.
***
Sometime later, a period of unidentified duration after telling 
    the story of this incident for its million record time passed, (you 
    must pardon me for he has told this story so many times without 
    losing its flavour that I can only say it has been told over a 
    million times) he remained still, holding a strong fastened gaze at 
    the image before him.
***
They were in church and the choir had intoned the beautiful song 
    ‘Here we are’
They sang it with gusto;
‘Here we are all together as we sing our song, 
    joyfully
Here we are, joined together as we pray we’ll always 
    be…’
As they were at ‘…brothers join me now…’ when 
    a toddler broke loose from its mother’s grip and ran into the 
    church central isle laughing with the freedom of the wind; careless 
    and very free. Everyone turned to look at him, being initially in 
    its own world, it suddenly became aware of multiple eyes centered 
    on him, he stopped, looked around and began to cry very 
    hysterically, with same abandonment as his laughter. The mother, 
    hiding her embarrassment, came forward, carried him, went out of 
    the church to succour him, and the church continued like nothing 
    happened. Outside, people were scattered. The baby refused every 
    form of appeasement until its mother, with remarkable embarrassment 
    and controlled annoyance, brought out her ripe bulging breast and 
    placed it in the child’s mouth. The happy one brought out both 
    hands and held the breast, it smoothly sulked with one hand on the 
    breast he was sulking while it administratively placed the other 
    hand on the other breast for protective measures. He was with 
    her.
***
But that church was different from this one here. He is not with 
    her. ‘dust thou art, dust thou returnest’ the 
    priest had said and waving his hand, he had said again 
    ’inomini patre, et filio, et spiritu 
    santus Amen…. The lord giveth, 
    the lord taketh, blessed be the name of the lord’. In his 
    brief oration the clergyman had said ‘…we must obey the 
    dictates of the spirit… it is what the spirit said… that, must come 
    to pass, that, we must obey.’
After doing his ‘dust to dust’ the one whose loss was the 
    greatest went out of the church cemetery barely making his way to 
    his car…
It was not yet noon.
***
He struggled with his eyes to conceptualize what the exact 
    picture of the image was. Like they would say, he was just between 
    sleeping and waking. Somnambulism had not yet set in. It was the 
    5am sleep that is termed the sweetest. He must have been in a 
    trance, some kind of hallucination or a strange transformation. He 
    was quite aware that he was standing on an unfamiliar terrain. He 
    struggled to posses back the grip of reality that he was losing. He 
    felt it; he was losing touch. Tried all he could to shake it off, 
    his delirium persisted. He must have embarked on a journey to a 
    deadly silent graveyard. The air was chilly and monstrously 
    quiet.
This is only one of those things that must find a way of 
    happening. It is the stifled cry that finally escapes the throat no 
    matter how hard you try to stop it.
***
He was being swallowed by a sloppy abyss of vacuum. He was 
    sinking into an ocean of emptiness. All around him was space, 
    craftily solemn void; nothing else but a vastness of empty whitish 
    stretch, no, I beg your pardon, it is not exactly white but 
    colourless vacuum and transcendent refulgence. Solid, insoluble but 
    empty-white-charred rocks choked him. He had 
    suddenly become claustrophobic in an empty space. He choked and 
    coughed till he held his heart to helplessly abate the pains that 
    promised to tear it to shreds.
He staggered and laughed tears, not really laughing at his 
    agoraphobia but his ability in this dreadful dungeon to summon up 
    tearful laughter till he could breathe no more.
You know, it is that kind of laughter that is better if you 
    cried out real loud with tears running freely and all your members 
    shaking like a grinder. If it was a part of the raging confusion it 
    was clearly unclear. But he sat there vibrating in deep choking 
    ‘something’.
‘Surely I must configure this image today; I am not 
    going to give up. I must know what this image is, which has been 
    imprinted indelibly on my mind’.
He managed to whisper to his almost incapacitated self.
It was all he could say.
He held on, refusing to bat an eyelid in other not to lose the 
    grip he had managed to hold on this nerve wreaking image. What is 
    tormenting him? I, I was not aware. Should he lose the image, he 
    would be so sad from the look of things. I do not think he could go 
    through the process of recapturing this woozy-blurry image 
    again.
***
‘It won’t serve me any good going through this process 
    again, I like keeping the records straight. I like to pay my 
    dues.’
Ekwedike said again to himself.
‘The frog does not run around in the afternoon in vain; 
    it is best to terminate the pursuer once and for all or be 
    terminated in turn.’
He thought again to himself.
There was a kind of space that encircled him interchanging into 
    a triangular orbit to help the confusion. He felt sure that he was 
    alone, but suddenly and slowly, some grassroot 
    fear took hold of him. He felt the goose pimples stand erect all 
    over his body for an eternal split second.
The kind of fear that sends cold shivers down one’s spine, 
    especially on dark village roads where there is a crossroad, a cold 
    bath in the river on a harmattan morning or the sudden sight of a 
    serpent. He was abandoned to uncertainty when he realized to his 
    chagrin that indeed there were two people in the room. He was split 
    in two. One to fear, the other to uncertainty.
Upon this shuddering revelation, showers of cold sweat escaped 
    his pores and trickled down his body…
***
…Yet he was alone! All alone to himself. Alone and lost in his 
    misery from miserably beautiful life. He wasn’t just confused and 
    vexed but he was also deeply amazed.
‘The undeniable sureness that reality could not blot 
    away told me that I was not alone, yet it was I, only I and I 
    alone.’
He later would say.
There was an image with a heavy club heading towards him, the 
    club was directly aimed at his head, and just as he made for the 
    closest exit which was between him and his adversary, he changed 
    his mind and rushed towards the image- headlong. There and then he 
    noticed that two distinct individuals were fighting to make use of 
    a single life. Fighting to outdo each other. Fighting to gain 
    supreme control to the other’s disappointment and misfortune. There 
    was a fierce battle going on.
The battle ground? - the mind.
The weapons? – memory.
The warlord, victim or victor? – ONESELF.
One conqueror-master must emerge to enslave the other and I am 
    the sole witness to this emancipation. Does it matter anyway? 
    Thugery, slavery, insanity and brutality are all the stories of man 
    and his world.
The great divide between the weak and the strong, class 
    distinction had always been by force. He saw this as the images 
    warred. It is the dance of the warriors. An enchanting macabre that 
    calls the Dikei to the square. Just as he was rushing headlong to 
    the image, a few meters before he reached the image with the raised 
    club, I heard a shattering noise and there was total silence, 
    darkness, blackout…
He is EKWEDIKE1The call of a 
    warrior and this is his story:
***
Within
‘…It was I and only I alone; I dare not bother about 
    illusions and mirages for I know who I am. I am Ekwedike the son of 
    a warrior from the line of great men. I have seen battles and 
    fought many. Great men have fallen to drunken slumber of slaughter 
    at my feet. It is I Ekwedike the son of Anunuebe, I shall not 
    stumble and fall.2A Proverb. 
    For each of the proverbs, their deeper meanings are in the 
    knowledge of the Igbo language. I shall not drown in the 
    river our fathers swam and 
    drank.3A Proverb. I 
    still shall not stop where they stopped: for I shall say to the 
    sons of the rising generation that I, Ekwedike is indeed a warrior 
    of sort. My escapades shall forever bless the rising sun and dare 
    the moonlit stories.’
Upon my miraculous resuscitation, these were my fervent 
    lamentations and words of courage as I faced this hideous image 
    that besieged me.
No! I was not afraid for there has not been anything that could 
    ever terrify the lion in the jungle let alone in his den; yet I was 
    afraid and soaked to my heart and spirit with sweat, yes, sweat of 
    fear for the ‘would be’ which I know not when it 
    would be. My head was still swimming in the wrecked abyss sentenced 
    upon it by the club of the image. The cloak of my virtuous apparel 
    held a picture of a transcending brightness unfathomable to me. 
    This development I could not explain. Yet I battled this new battle 
    that has brought its frontier to my home, not just to my home but 
    to me, to my very person, into my inner chambers; to the very 
    essence of my being. 
    ‘Tufia-kwa!iiTufia kwa- a 
    sound of rejection made with the mouth meaning I forbid or God 
    forbid. The son of a lion can never eat grass. No, mba 
    nu.iiiMba nu- No of 
    course The okro vegetable does not grow taller than he 
    that planted it to prevent a 
    harvest.’4A 
    proverb
I kept awakening courageous summons with familiar outbursts. I 
    sighed and wiped away the tears quickly building up in my eyes. Is 
    this the exit of the warrior? In whose ears shall these uproarious 
    stories be poured? I wondered…
***
…In my grief, the heavens opened and I took steps back to the 
    battles of Igwenga, that saw only I Ekwedike Ikenga coming back 
    home safely with my 
    Oja5Dagger. intact 
    on my waist. What happened to others is only a thing to hold 
    sacred. Only the mystagogue can tell them to the initiates as a 
    secret story about the great warriors of our land. A hunter does 
    not say all the things he sees in the 
    forests.6A proverb 
    The only useful saying is that it was only I Ekwedike Ikenga who 
    came back alive and healthy.
I knew too well that the frog does not come out on a sunny day 
    for naught.7A 
    proverb I need not the oracle to know what chased this 
    frog of images out upon me on a day like this. I know why they came 
    rushing like a swam of locusts. I know what is chasing them. I also 
    know that the lion being the king of the jungle does not make it 
    the biggest animal in the wilds.
Upon this knowledge, I spoke to the image that had held me 
    captive all day as though I spoke to myself, I called it by my name 
    and spoke as though I spoke to myself; for I knew I was alone but 
    not really alone.
“Listen to me Utobi Ekwedike 
    Ikenga8Ikenga- 
    Symbol of authority and power for the Igbos” was all I 
    could say before busting out in a fervent 
    Ogu9Ogu- the true deified 
    conscience that symbolises purity of heart.; talking to 
    myself in an effort to talk to the image.
I went on; “you must forget the past and face the 
    present keeping the future in view.”
