Our student-governors
Sir: Trust Nigerian politicians and slogans. At the dawn of the 
    current administration, many elected political office holders took 
    various titles as a reflection of what they will do in office. For 
    instance, it was the ‘servant leader’ 
    in Abuja, in Minna ‘chief servant’, in 
    Uyo ‘digital governor’ and in Benin it 
    was ‘comrade governor’ and today across 
    the states we now have ‘student governors 
    ’'
It was a thing of shame and surprise to Nigerians, when it was 
    published in some dailies that our governors under the 
    instrumentality of the Governors Forum were going to Kennedy School 
    of Governance to ‘learn’ or better 
    still be ‘taught’ the act of 
    governance.
When l read this latest on the unending show of shame by our 
    governors, l thought they should have also added the name of 
    president Yar’Adua as one of the participants at the course, 
    especially in the area of implementing the seven point agenda which 
    has remained an albatross on his government.
Words cannot express how I feel at this latest show of 
    insensitivity on the part of our governors. To even imagine that 
    Governor Oshiomhole could give his imprimatur to such anti people 
    and wasteful scheme is very disturbing and shameful in the least. 
    That’s one man who is fast frittering away the immense goodwill he 
    had gathered over the years.
Some of these governors spent tens of millions campaigning for 
    political offices, only to turn around in the middle of their term 
    to this newfound fever of ‘good 
    governance’. So what have they been doing since they 
    came to office? How about such governors who spent so many months 
    at the tribunals fighting to upturn the election of the sitting 
    governors? So they all came unprepared. This is totally 
    unacceptable to us as it amounts to learning how to use one’s left 
    hand in old age.
Our governors do not need to go America or London to learn the 
    act of governance, but even if they must do so at all, it should be 
    a precondition for contesting for the office of the governor and 
    not during their term.
Interestingly, the officials of the Kennedy School of Governance 
    of the Harvard University described the programme as first of its 
    kind in Africa. Unknown to them and unlike what obtains in advanced 
    societies, such gaffes are commonplace in Nigeria, especially among 
    those in government. After all, this is about the only country 
    where you hear military authorities boasting about military feats 
    accomplished against defenceless citizens as if such feats were 
    recorded against the US army. I wish we could fight corruption with 
    a similar momentum. What of the governors, especially those from 
    the Niger Delta region, who have failed to make any meaningful 
    impact on the lives of their people well half past their tenure? 
    This country can be very unbearable. Our constitution is a military 
    heritage bequeathed to us by the captors of the Nigerian state. 
    Rather than fixing our national problems in a most nationalistic 
    and selfless manner, the chambers of the National Assembly are 
    engulfed in the vortex of a leadership tussle, fighting over who 
    should occupy choice positions in the Constitution Amendment 
    Committee.
Your excellencies, having said this much, l most passionately 
    appeal to you to keep to the ideals of the founding fathers of the 
    Governors’ Forum as an avenue for brainstorming on finding 
    solutions to our common national challenges, and not as a conduit 
    pipe for wasteful and senseless spending.
Instead of this school of governance, may l invite your 
    excellencies to refer to section 14 (1) (b) of our constitution 
    that says “the security and welfare of the people shall be the 
    primary purpose of government” Anything done along this line, like 
    providing quality and affordable education, basic infrastructure, 
    tackling corruption among others would indeed engender our welfare 
    and security, which are the concomitants of ‘good 
    governance’.
Going to America to learn how to do this is a most needless 
    expedition and should therefore be called off. The money intended 
    for such trips should rather be used to improve educational 
    facilities in the various states. This indeed would be the hallmark 
    of good governance, which our governors do not need to go America 
    to learn.
• Olumese Hilary,
Benin City, Edo State
