NECO and standards
SIR: The discrimination by Cross River State University against 
    NECO SSCE Certificates should not be condemned wholesale without 
    thorough investigation. Anyone who has been following the 
    activities of NECO and its staff would confirm that the examination 
    board has sacrificed academic standards on the altar of lucrative 
    business. Remember, the Federal Government used its might to create 
    NECO by fiat and so, became an 
    extension of the Federal Civil Service.
Both NECO and WAEC operate the same syllabus but there is a wide 
    gulf between them. While WAEC looks beyond Nigeria by setting 
    standards comparable to the London, Cambridge and other 
    international examination bodies, NECO is not in competition 
    because it is in a world of her own. Most NECO state offices are 
    fiefdoms meant to collect tributes from conquered schools, 
    particularly the hapless private schools. The staff know full well 
    whether they discharge their duties or not the Federal Government 
    crude oil account is wide open to cater for their salaries.
Take the distribution of practical instructions to schools for 
    instance. These are vital materials meant for the subject teachers 
    only, that ought to be distributed by hand in sealed envelopes, 
    emphasizing the importance attached. But NECO distributes these 
    instructions in sheets picked by any representatives of schools 
    from the floor of their offices or at times from C.I.Es’ offices.
Their exam supervisors are selected not on the basis of 
    qualifications but to the highest bidder. Most seasoned examiners 
    avoid their marking exercise as they (NECO) prefer cheap and 
    inexperienced ones in order to maximise profit at the detriment of 
    standards. These and many other myriad of problems of NECO which 
    are selfinflicted cannot make the body 
    efficient and serve the purpose for which it was established.
My candid suggestion is to encourage the University of Ibadan, 
    Ahmadu Bello University and University of Nigeria, Nsukka to set up 
    examination boards similar to WAEC. NECO should be scrapped 
    completely because it lacks credibility, good legacies and should 
    not be allowed to influence such new boards. As long as NECO exists 
    unsupervised and unaccountable, so shall it contribute partly to 
    the deteriorating educational standards in the country.
Rev. S.E Eboge,
Benin City, Edo State.
