MEND, Atlas Cove and leading from the rear
By Tony Uranta
“We wouldn’t be true friends with someone who we didn’t 
    think was a true friend to us - and someone with many true friends 
    is far more formidable than someone with many fair-weather allies.” 
    — Eliezer Yudowsky
Dear Governor Fashola,
When in September 2007, American lawyer and geopolitical 
    analyst, Jonathan Strong, in calling for a radical restructuring of 
    the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) warned that the 
    western war machine born during the cold war required 
    “allies who are willing to act preemptively and swiftly to 
    confront threats”, he emphasised the need to “also 
    put other ‘fair weather’ allies, who are less than cooperative, on 
    notice that their voice will not be heard, or can at least be 
    ignored, if obstruction is chosen over cooperation.”
One is reminded of this in the light of the recent unfortunate 
    MEND attack on the federal government’s Atlas Cove Jetty and the 
    many outcries by Lagosians who (rightly so) are worried about what 
    the sudden shifting of the theatre of attrition from within the 
    Niger Delta’s boundaries.
These outcries, as normal as they may appear, remind many of the 
    Yoruba adage that say “esu ma 
    semi, omo elomiran ni ko se”; which could 
    transliterate in this context as “we all support MEND’s struggle 
    for fiscal federalism for all of us, provided we do not have to pay 
    any price the Niger Delta is paying.”
Nobody faults Your Excellency’s chagrin at the Atlas Cove Jetty 
    “affront” and the resultant strong call on the Niger Delta armed 
    groups not to bring “war” into your area of security -jurisdiction. 
    As Chief Security Officer of Lagos State (though this is a mere 
    empty appellation without the concomitant executive powers that you 
    would have in a true federation!) you probably did not see how else 
    you could justify the oath you took to serve the people of Lagos 
    aright.
This missive may not have been necessary.
But many progressive political players and analysts, from all 
    over our nation_space and 
    abroad, have however wondered at the mileage hoped to be gained by 
    the many other traditional, government-driven and socio-cultural 
    groups that have since been belligerently beating drums of 
    potential ethnic war between the Ijaw/Niger Deltans and their 
    Yoruba/South Western brothers who have hitherto lived for decades 
    not only in peace and harmony, but have been (together) the prime 
    apostles of the need to restructure this contraption known as 
    Nigeria. Could it be true as many have posited that there are 
    cabals in Lagos which have diesel-millionaires funding the cries 
    for “reprisals” against Ijaw/Niger Deltans?
Thank God for the quick intervention of progressive “factions” 
    and leaders of Afenifere (the umbrella body that speaks for ALL 
    Yoruba/ 
    South_Westerners) and Oodua Peoples Congress (the OPC is 
    the “military” wing of ALL Yorubas) who have come out to state 
    solidarity with MEND and declared that MEND’s attack of the Atlas 
    Cove Jetty is was not targeted against the Yoruba/South-West…and 
    went on to nip a 
    potentially_explosive ethnicity-based incident in the 
    Badagry sector of Lagos State this week!
The puzzle of why certain groups and persons have began to 
    inflexibly threaten MEND with reprisals from Lagosians/the 
    South-West becomes seemingly more complex because MEND has 
    exhaustively explained severally that the Atlas Cove Jetty attack 
    had nothing to do with the geographical location or demographic 
    realities of what it accurately defined as a federal government 
    owned installation.
MEND explained that it targeted the Atlas Cove Jetty because it 
    fell within the purview of the “oil war” it has long declared 
    against the Federal Government of Nigeria and the oil 
    multinationals, in its bid to gain justice for the demonised Niger 
    Deltans and regain true federalism for the whole nation. MEND said 
    all such oil installations and facilities, wherever they may be in 
    Nigeria, are “legitimate targets”.
Finally, MEND say it regretted any civilian deaths caused, and 
    commiserated with the government and good people of Lagos State on 
    their unfortunate losses.
Apart from MEND, many other Ijaw/Niger Delta groups (including 
    the United Niger Delta Energy Development Security 
    Strategy—UNDEDSS—the aggregation of all Niger Delta ethnic 
    nationalities and civil society) were also quick to express empathy 
    with Lagosians and meet with leaders of thought of the South-West 
    to soothe ruffled feathers.
Still the drumbeats of “war” have not ceased. The question has 
    been raised by reasonable observers of this quirky trend of threats 
    by groups and leaders of the South-West: “Exactly what shape would 
    these threatened reprisals take?”
Will the South_West 
    mobilize against an amorphous organisation as MEND?
As boxing great Mohammed Ali succinctly put it, “your 
    hands can’t hit what your eyes don’t see!” Or are Lagosians 
    going to witness pogroms….introducing the lynchings and rapings 
    that are more synonymous with the North against their innocent 
    Ijaw/Niger Delta neighbours who have co-existed with all tribes up 
    to date, a la Nazi Germany against the Jews?
Would this not result in a “free-for-all” that would end with, 
    at best, a State of Emergency being declared in Lagos; and Lagos 
    having a military force of occupation repressing the easy-going 
    people of Eko as is the case now in the Niger Delta…or, at worst, 
    would this not speed up the US-predicted failure of the Nigerian 
    state?
Can both Lagos and the Niger Delta not avoid this? Can both not 
    work together for the common good of all Nigerians? Is there cabal 
    interested in there being no peace?
Since both the South-West and the Niger Delta seem to the same 
    thing ultimately: to end the corruption that has plagued our 
    nation, to restore justice and equity in all of Nigeria, and to 
    rejuvenate the vision of holistic federalism of our founding 
    fathers, as enshrined in the 1960 and 1963 Constitutions, why do 
    both not realise that in the making of omelettes eggs must be 
    broken? Or are some people suggesting that only Niger Delta eggs be 
    broken…as always?! Or must the Niger Delta lead the necessary 
    struggle for change, whilst the rest of Nigeria leads from the 
    rear?
Leading from the rear is a pejorative term that applies to 
    leaders who lack the strength to be ahead of followers. Its origins 
    probably lie with the military, where the leader (often aged 
    generals) sits behind the lines and makes decisions without being 
    in the midst of the battle.
Leading from the rear often results in the leader being out of 
    touch with the realities of the context, and out of touch with the 
    needs of the situations and followers. In this case it means 
    “monkey go work, for baboon to chop”. Well, the Niger Delta 
    “monkeys” don wear suit now…enough is enough!
MEND has said it is not repentant of its “oil war” and has 
    called on the world to implore President Umoru Yar’Adua to stop 
    posturing and embrace the positive 60-days ceasefire MEND is 
    holding out; vowing that should the federal government not do so 
    (or should the JTF attack any of MEND’s positions) it will unleash 
    more plagues in its “oil war”/Hurricane Moses arsenal that will 
    compel this nation to come out of its pseudo-comfort-zone and 
    expedite the birth of justice-for-all in a fiscally-federal 
    Nigeria.
Can MEND force the hand of government? This writer is a pacifist 
    who knows next nothing about war. Maybe an answer lies in the 
    conclusion of a very recent US Government Report which says 
    “The militants cannot defeat the JTF militarily, but the JTF 
    cannot prevent the militants from engaging in economic 
    sabotage.” Shalom. Egberi 
    fa.
