Dear Prof. ,
I am  
    , PhD, a Professor of English and 
    Applied Linguistics in the Department of English, 
     University, 
    , Nigeria.
I wish to request your kind assistance to support my application 
    for a DAAD=A0 Post-doctoral scholarship for 3 months, from XXX, to 
    enable me research further into, write and share knowledge on the 
    topic of my inaugural lecture, which I intend to present by the end 
    of  in my home 
    institution .
I shall be grateful if you could, please, serve as my host 
    professor and also help to process a letter of invitation from your 
    university during the period of my stay in Germany.
I have chosen you along with two other professors as my 
    potential host after due consideration of your pedigree as a 
    renowned scholar of Applied linguistics and your sustained interest 
    in English language studies in native and non-native contexts. 
    Although my research will be largely independent, I shall 
    undoubtedly benefit from useful comments and ideas from other 
    experts in the field, to enhance the quality of the project.
Advanced Information on the project is provided thus:
Title of Proposal: English Language Usage, Use and Misuse in a 
    Non-host Second Language Context, Nigeria
Objectives: a. Review the current state of English in Nigeria as 
    presented in existing studies; b. Analyse and describe data on 
    English usage and micro- and macro-uses in Nigeria with respect to 
    the prospects and problems; and c. Determine the extent and limits 
    of the status of English vis-a-vis other languages in Nigeria for 
    achieving sustainable national development
Methodology: Report from empirical studies, natural observation, 
    interviews and questionnaire
Perspectives: Sociolinguistics, Bilingualism/Multilingualism
Outline (Tentative)
1.Nigerian English as an Institutionalized ESL Variety of 
    English
2.Aspects of English Language Studies in Nigeria
3.Uses and Misuses (Micro-and Macro-) of the English language in 
    Nigeria
4.Re-positioning the English Language and other languages in 
    Nigeria forsustainable 
    national development and global relevance
I am already writing the study proposal for the application and 
    shall send it to you for your input when I finish.
    I have attached my CV to this request to 
    familiarize you with my academic and professional activities to 
    date.
Thank you and best regards,
 
    
