Government intervention in Nigerian banks?
Last year, the chief executive officers of Nigerian banks asked 
    the federal government to intervene in the nation's financial 
    sector in order to minimise the effect the global financial 
    meltdown would have on Nigeria. As a result, there are reports that 
    the federal government might soon be part owners of some banks. 
    Hitherto, the central bank governor has consistently assured 
    Nigerians that the country’s banks are healthy and needed no 
    handouts.
Of all 25 major banks in the country, none had publicly 
    expressed the desire to be helped. At least their financial 
    statements and huge undisclosed bonuses paid to top executives, 
    which reflected in their exhibition of opulence, assured customers 
    that their savings were not only safe, but was yielding attractive 
    dividend.
It is therefore worrying how suddenly the same banks that were 
    said to be in excellent health are now asking for government bail 
    outs and in some circumstances partial take-over by the government. 
    It is clear that the public was manipulated into believing the 
    concocted figures that were churned out annually by banks.
As if the bail outs and partial ownership pills are not enough, 
    there is a silly suggestion that the government should re-invest in 
    banks. Under this arrangement, government will acquire a 
    controlling stake of 30% in some of the banks. Whilst it is 
    predictable what line of action the federal government will take, 
    partly influenced by global examples, the general question being 
    asked by many Nigerians is what thought pattern produces government 
    as the best cure to the self-induced ailment of the banks?
Before the banking sector was liberalised in 1992, banks were 
    characterized by large-scale mismanagement. Banks became appendages 
    of political parties depending on whichever was in power. 
    Appointments onto the board of many banks were not based on merit. 
    Sound banking practices were jettisoned and as a result the 
    survival of banks was hinged on cyclical government funds.
Privatisation, however, changed the banking scene, as it 
    effectively ended government intervention in the banks. This helped 
    in curbing mismanagement and inefficiency. Bureaucracy gave way for 
    improved and prompt decision-making process, particularly, in area 
    of marketing and product innovation, necessitating increased market 
    competition and improvement in the asset quality.
But all of these gains are being whittled away by the deep 
    cracks that had underlain the liberalised industry all this while. 
    Perhaps that is the beauty of running an open society. A free 
    society while it rewards, also punishes, so we all can learn from 
    our mistakes. The call therefore, for government to re-invest in 
    banks at this point is largely misguided and economic folly at 
    best. The cardinal duty of government is to provide the regulatory 
    framework under which the banks operate and create a favourable 
    climate conducive for them to contribute meaningfully to the growth 
    of the economy.
Experience has shown there are incentives for government owned 
    banks, partially or wholly, to be mismanaged. This is because 
    government is assumed to have limitless sources of revenue that 
    will always be a safety net. The urge to be frivolous and 
    extravagant is high. This was the nemesis of the big governments 
    sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in the United 
    States of America.
But there is a greater danger. Government acquisition of equity 
    in some banks will obviously create good bank and bad bank 
    mentality except the plan is to re-invest in all banks. Government 
    backed banks become good banks. Depositors will move their funds 
    from "bad" banks. This was the experience in UK late last 
    year when depositors instantly moved their funds to Irish 
    government- 
    guaranteed banks.
Government re-investment in banks will have a devastating effect 
    on the entire banking sector. A change in government will 
    ultimately undermine and affect board composition and performance. 
    Besides re-igniting loss of confidence in our banks as was the case 
    in the 90s, taking beneficial long-term decisions will be a mirage. 
    Expectedly, internal squabbles and boardroom politics will be 
    full-blown and take the center stage.
However, if the recent Economic and Financial Crimes report 
    confirming the true financial standing of most of the banks is 
    anything to go by, it is an indictment on Central Bank of Nigeria 
    (CBN) and Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC). It further 
    calls in to question the central 
    bank's claim that post-consolidation Nigerian banks have a 
    total balance sheet of about N10.43 trillion, a growth of 
    277% in between 2003 and 2007. A figure this large signifies depth 
    - a N388billion capital 
    market loan exposure is not supposed to rattle them even if gone 
    badly.
Government involvement in the banking system merely overshadows 
    the gains of reforms in the financial sector. It is a road we have 
    traveled before. It leads to nowhere. Part of the reason government 
    divested state-owned financial institutions and other state-owned 
    enterprises was largely because such investments were a drain on 
    the national purse.
It is crystal clear that the global financial meltdown is 
    adversely impacting the local economy. However, if there are any 
    bail outs to be given, it is certainly not only the financial 
    sector. Other sectors may be. But 
    the danger is that once a bailout is offered to a particular 
    sector, other sectors stand in line to ask for support. It is 
    doubtful if the federal government would be able to rescue all the 
    sectors without running into a financial ditch.
Unfortunately, government intervention in the banking sector 
    will be a reward for some bank chief executives who have become 
    richer than their banks. It would be an incentive for the chief 
    executives to continue what brought most of the banks to their 
    present state.
