Yar’Adua should go on vacation
SIR: The Alliance for Democracy (AD) has been following with 
    rapt interest the dust raised by the call for the resignation of 
    President Umaru Yar’Adua occasioned by his incessant ill health. Of 
    particular interest to us is the propriety of Mr. 
    President’s resignation and the attempt by the PDP to equate its 
    interest with that of the generality of the over 150 million 
    Nigerian people.
While we agree that Mr. President just like any human 
    being can fall sick any time, but as the number one citizen of 
    Nigeria upon whose shoulders the security and the welfare of the 
    citizens of this country squarely rested, it therefore means that 
    his state of health is the concern of every citizen of this 
    country. By implication it is the duty of the Nigerian state to 
    take care of him and it is equally the rights of the citizenry to 
    know how much of the nation’s resources are being expended on him 
    in this regard.
It is very clear to all, except the ruling PDP who are playing 
    politics with Mr. President’s health that his health 
    condition has gravely affected his ability to discharge his duties 
    as the president of the country.
Rather than joining issues with those who are advocating for his 
    resignation, we urge him to formally write the National Assembly 
    concerning the true state of his health and apply for a leave of 
    absence to allow him devote enough time to his wellbeing while his 
    deputy takes over in the acting capacity till when he has fully 
    recovered.
This would have been in accordance with S145 of the 1999 
    Constitution which states that ‘whenever the President remit to the 
    President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
    Representatives, a written declaration that he is proceeding on 
    vacation or that he is otherwise unable to discharge the functions 
    of his office, until he transmit to them a written declaration to 
    the contrary such functions shall be discharged by the Vice 
    President as acting President’. This step is crucial for Mr. 
    President to take in order to bring about stability in the system 
    without also jeopardizing himself and his family.
• Popoola Ajayi,
National Publicity Secretary, Alliance for 
    Democracy
