On Osun Law School students’ bursary
SIR: Payment of bursary to students in the Nigerian Law School 
    is an important incentive which enhances the academic performance 
    of the students. This is because the expenses of an average student 
    whilst at the Law School is quite high. Apart from the school fee 
    which is N220,000, a law student still has to buy text books, 
    Laptop and cater for his feeding amongst other expenses.
Fortunately for some Nigerian Law School students, some State 
    Governments have made it a policy to give a particular sum of money 
    as bursary to the students from their states. Such states include 
    but are not limited to the following:
(1) Kaduna State paid 250,000(Two 
    Hundred and Fifty Thousand) Naira per Law Student.
(2) Lagos State paid 200,000 (Two Hundred Thousand) Naira per 
    Law Student.
(3) Ekiti State paid 100,000 (One Hundred Thousand) Naira per 
    Law Student.
(4) Ogun State paid 50,000 (Fifty Thousand) Naira per Law 
    Student.
(5) Kogi State paid 150,000 (One Hundred and Fifty Thousand) 
    Naira per Law Student.
(6) Kwara State paid 200,000 (Two Hundred Thousand) Naira per 
    Law Student.
However, despite several entreaties and appeals made to the Osun 
    State Government, Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola has refused to pay 
    Osun State students in the Nigerian Law School any form of 
    bursary.
It is pertinent to note that Governor Oyinlola is a law graduate 
    from the Buckingham University in the United Kingdom; his Deputy, 
    Erelu Olusola Obada, is a lawyer whilst the Speaker of the Osun 
    State House of Assembly, Hon. Adejare Bello, is also a 
    lawyer.
Further, Oyinlola’s argument that if he pays bursary to law 
    students, students from other disciplines would demand for same, is 
    dead on arrival. This is because the legal profession is the ONLY 
    profession which demands that a student must attend a 
    post-university school (The Nigerian Law School) before he can be 
    called to the Nigerian Bar.
I hereby use this medium to implore Governor Oyinlola to include 
    the payment of bursary to Law School students from Osun in the 
    state’s budget.
