Calling police IG
SIR: I wish to use your widely read newspaper to let the 
    Inspector General of Police, the Minister for Police Affairs and 
    the Police Service Commission to know what is happening at zone 6 
    police headquarters Calabar. I want them to know that police work 
    has broken down in that zone due to the activities of the 
    Commissioners of Akwa Ibom and Rivers States police command.
I was meant to understand that discipline and obeying orders are 
    the bedrock of the force, but in zone 6 Calabar, it is not so 
    because the Commissioners of Police mentioned above are above the 
    law and richer than the AIG at Zone 6, hence they don’t obey his 
    orders. We in Rivers State have had enough of Bala Hassan and will 
    soon take action against him because in Rivers State, it is the 
    highest bidder that wins a case. If you are poor, forget about your 
    case in my state because if even your brother or relation is 
    murdered, the murderer will win the case and even jail you, so long 
    as he has money to bribe Bala and his officers.
In case you don’t get justice at state and venture to go to Zone 
    6 from Rivers State you will be disgraced. Whenever the men from 
    Zone 6 come with letter of investigation duly signed by the Deputy 
    Commissioner of Police, Bala will reject it and send the policemen 
    back as if the police command is now a private estate where the 
    owner is in charge. The worst is that the AIG, Mr. Azubuko 
    Udah, will have no say. I don’t know if it is due to incompetency 
    or he is afraid to caution his juniors or because they are richer 
    than him.
The question now is: do policemen from the zones have the power 
    to operate in states under their zone? Is it right for a 
    Commissioner of Police under any zone to reject investigation 
    mandate duly signed by either AIG or Deputy Commissioner of Police 
    from the zone?
Finally, I want the IGP and other relevant authorities to look 
    into this indiscipline going on at Zone 6 Calabar, so that poor 
    people will not be subjected to suicide due to activities of Rivers 
    and Akwa Ibom Police Commissioners.
• Chiwike Ovunda,
Port Harcourt, Rivers State
