SIR: I wish to appeal to the Lagos State Government to look into 
    the menace of tanker drivers who daily cause chaos on our major 
    roads with their tankers. Most roads have been converted to parking 
    lots by these tanker drivers who have for long deluded themselves 
    with the tag of ‘untouchables’.
The government should endeavour to correct the notion that it is 
    scared of towing these vehicles off our roads because of the 
    constant but irrelevant strikes embarked on by the tanker drivers. 
    At any small prodding, these tanker drivers assemble and issue 
    warnings and then proceed on needless strikes, hence it is apparent 
    that their actions have pushed the government onto the cautious 
    track. Whenever there is a tanker driver’s strike, the poor masses 
    suffer untold hardship and that obviously is why the Lagos State 
    Government is a bit laid back in their enforcement of traffic rules 
    and regulations when dealing with this group.
However, security of lives should be uppermost on the mind of 
    our government as these tankers pose serious danger to road users 
    who daily ply our roads. Most evenings and even at night, 
    unsuspecting vehicles run into them and countless lives have been 
    lost to such irresponsibility.
The traffic log-jam also caused by these reckless parking on our 
    expressways can better be imagined. For instance, road users who 
    ply the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway daily would attest to the fact that 
    tankers have taken over the whole stretch of the service lane. 
    Motorists coming out from the Iyana-Isolo end towards the airport 
    bridge have to contend with driving against traffic along the major 
    express and facing on-coming vehicles, thereby creating endless 
    risk to lives of road users.
These tankers are parked on the service lane right from Toyota 
    bus-stop through five-star bus-stop and up to Cele bus-stop and 
    beyond along the expressway and no one seems to be raising eye 
    brows. This lack of discipline and risk to human lives ought to be 
    immediately addressed by the government.
Driving through this route and other routes littered with these 
    tankers has become life-threatening by the day and the earlier the 
    government acted the better for its citizens who have become 
    hapless in this irrepressible situation.
