SIR: Our attention has been drawn to some comments on some 
    newspapers, credited to Chief Emeka Anyaoku in a telephone 
    conversation with Ukpakareports.com. In the said report, the 
    Chief was quoted to have said that the cancellation of Obosi and 
    Nkpor polls may have tipped the result and outcome of the election 
    in favour of the incumbent Governor, since as he claimed, Obosi and 
    Nkpor "are strongholds" of Dr Chris Ngige.
We are greatly disappointed by this comment and we believe he 
    may have been quoted out of context, since a highly reputable and 
    respectable first class diplomat of his calibre would not engage in 
    such speculation based purely on misinformation, in a highly 
    sensitive matter such as this.
The highly respected Chief admitted in the said conversation 
    that he was not physically present in Obosi during the period of 
    the election and therefore would not have first hand information of 
    the mood of Obosi people or what actually transpired on the 
    Election Day. In this context, one may therefore pardon his 
    comments.
Chief Anyaoku is obviously not aware that no voting took place 
    in Obosi at all, as a result of non-distribution of voting 
    materials to the various polling stations by INEC officials. Obosi 
    people, from the various political parties spontaneously trooped 
    out en-mass to scuttle the rigging of the election, when they found 
    out that some unscrupulous Obosi people had already stuffed 30 
    ballot boxes with about 45,000 votes on the night of 5th February, 
    2010, with the hope of smuggling them in as Obosi votes in favour 
    of one of the candidates. This scheme was however frustrated by 
    vigilant Obosi people, leading to the cancellation of the 
    results.
This position was also corroborated by the representatives of 
    all the political parties present in Obosi as well as independent 
    election observers.
It is noteworthy to state here that the total number of 
    registered voters in Obosi is only 37,543, far less than the 45,000 
    mentioned in the conversation. If the average turnout ratio of 
    about 20% is applied this will yield only 7,509 votes, which is not 
    enough to alter the result of the election. Furthermore, we are not 
    aware that the voting exercise in Nkpor was cancelled.
As a highly respected and internationally influential 
    personality, we still expect the Chief to address the reasons why 
    no voting took place in Obosi his home town. When this happens, he 
    will find reasons to direct his bitterness at the miscreants and 
    never-do-wells who had organised the stuffing of the ballot boxes 
    the night before the election.
