Dear President Yar’Adua,
“Always deal with the man at the top!”…Chris M. Okolie
Dear President Yar’Adua,
This writer broke his writing-milk-teeth working with a 
    little-sung icon of the Nigerian press, Christopher Maduaburochukwu 
    Okolie; the young man who dared to import classy full-colour gloss 
    into the realm of Nigerian media (which was hitherto dominated by 
    the “dreary” but popular Spear and Drum magazines) with his 
    revolutionary “NEWBREED” magazine (with the delectable Ms. 
    Gloria Rhodes gracing its debut 1972 cover).
Chris Okolie introduced, with the advent of NEWBREED, a bold 
    genre of investigative and bold journalism that unveiled the 
    hitherto untouchable world of corrupt military politics in Nigeria, 
    and was precursor of the NEWSWATCHs, TELLs, et al, of today. Of 
    course, he paid for his ground-breaking daring, when he earned the 
    wrath of OBJ in that General’s his first coming, following General 
    Murtala Mohammed’s death!
General Obasanjo placed NEWBREED in the history books by 
    proscribing it in 1978 (the first proscription of a publication 
    since Nigeria gained independence in 1960), for having featured a 
    series of probing articles and unconventional interviews that had 
    culminated in one edition that featured both an exposé of the 
    nascent-NSO (the National Security Organisation, that later birthed 
    the SSS, NIA, et al, Nigeria’s alphabet of “intelligence” agencies) 
    by this writer; which the government claimed was seditious because 
    it had published the name and photograph of the army officer who 
    then headed the abusive NSO.
With the gusto of youthful exuberance, Okolie’s crew of bright 
    young ingénues (which also included Pat Utomi, Atedo Peterside, 
    Chris Ogbechie, Tex Egbedi, to name only a few) went about, even 
    pre-OBJ, gleefully treading on toes and fingers of the rich and 
    powerful in Nigeria (leading, for example, to General Yakubu Gowon 
    sacking erudite Professor Adedeji, after this gentleman unwisely 
    indicted himself in a NEWBREED interview).
One often wonders whether Chris’ crew wouldn’t have done a 
    better job at keeping on their toes, this unbelievably more-corrupt 
    3rd Republic actors with their incessant “demonstration of craze” 
    (apologies to the inimitable Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, who himself 
    really only became Nigeria’s greatest musical export following the 
    street-savvy marketing of him nationwide by our self-same Chris 
    Okolie!), than what our current crop of Nigerian media journalists 
    (many of whom have been impoverished into being themselves 
    sometimes easily corrupted by the system)!
Of course, before (and after) NEWBREED, Nigeria has had great 
    journalists; premier among whom (and still alive, thank God!) were 
    Peter Enahoro and Sam Amuka-Pemu (whose sobriquets, “Peter Pan” and 
    “Sad Sam”, were household names. Others have included the great Ray 
    Ekpus, Dele Giwas, Bukar Zarmas, Muyiwa Adetibas, Haroun Adamus, 
    Nduka Obaigbenas; the very enchanting Bunmi Sofolas, Funmi Iyandas 
    and Helen Ovbiagelis; and, not forgetting the Dele Momodus, Amah 
    Ogans, Ibim Semenitaris, Owei Lakemfas and Mideno Bayagbons.
But…back to Chris Okolie; the man many elite Nigerians loved to 
    hate through the late 1960s to the late 1990s…both for his uncanny 
    ability to expose their quirks and weaknesses, and for the fact 
    that he was supposedly a “social upstart” who had ruthlessly 
    ascended the rungs of power from out of the lowest levels of 
    society, attaining heights of power that made him relevant in the 
    nation’s social, political and economic landscape…even winning, in 
    marriage, the hand of the much-sought-after gracious Mabel Ibru of 
    the Ibru dynasty.
Through all these, Chris’ major visible concession to 
    hierarchies was captured in the simple dictum Chris taught every 
    editorial and marketing staff of his now-defunct NEWBREED Group 
    (which also published Nigeria’s premier business magazine, THE 
    PRESIDENT, and NEW TIMES), viz., “Always deal with the man 
    at the top”.
Using this simple maxim, Chris’ NEWBREED irrepressible crew 
    ferreted out well-investigated scandal after scandal (including the 
    one that gave “life” to Nigeria’s colourful politician, Godwin 
    Daboh, through the infamous “If you Daboh me, I will Tarka you” 
    saga). Isn’t it just like Nigeria, that when this icon of the media 
    passed on in his middle-age, a couple of years ago, very few 
    journals noted, or reported, his demise…?
Whether they did, or not, matters little to Chris, or this 
    writer, now. What matters is the maxim of “always deal with the man 
    at the top”.
It is that maxim of Chris’ (i.e., “always deal 
    with the man at the top”) that leads one to pen this missive to you 
    today, Mr. President, because you are “the man at the top”, 
    where Nigeria is concerned…or, are you? Are you really the “the man 
    at the top” in Nigeria? Can you, Alhaji Umoru Musa Yar’Adua, 
    honestly say that you are the sole man at the top as far as 
    national affairs are concerned? Some of your aides and ministers 
    seem to think otherwise, Mr. President!
Or will you say that you are unaware of the mixed signals that 
    some of your lieutenants often give in this regard; making fools of 
    most of us “loyalists” of yours who believe that the buck of 
    executive power ends on your desk? Have you not heard some of your 
    men and women (ministers, advisers et al) make public proclamations 
    that run contrary to stated positions (public or private) of 
    yours?
Please do not say that you are so disconnected from our national 
    reality that you are oblivious to the fact, for example, that 
    General Godwin Abbe’s macho braggadocio and dictatorial words are 
    becoming more and more inimical to the expedited attainment of your 
    administration’s goal of sustainable peace in the Niger Delta. No? 
    Well, he is a danger to Nigeria, at the moment!
We all hailed you as being a pragmatic statesman when you coaxed 
    MEND’s Henry Okah to meet privately with you; after which meeting, 
    your media adviser, Segun Adeniyi, informed the world of your 
    preparedness to negotiate with ALL parties that could help 
    fast-track the process of peace in the Niger Delta.
We were even virtually ready to nominate you for next year’s 
    Nobel Peace Prize when MEND announced an indefinite ceasefire, 
    premised on what MEND termed your private reassurances to Okah that 
    you would meet with the group of distinguished Nigerians (the Aaron 
    Team led by Admiral Mike Okhai Akhigbe, one-time Nigeria’s number 
    two “man at the top”) MEND had asked you to speak with.
Even the Professor Pat Utomi-led coalition of Niger Delta ethnic 
    nationalities, UNDEDSS (the United Niger Delta Energy, Development 
    & Security Strategy) publicly applauded you for proactively 
    thinking out-of-the-box in the interest of the common good.
Consider, therefore, the shock this nation had of hearing “ 
    wanna-be-President”, General Abbe, 
    blustering on national and global television that “the Federal 
    Government will not talk with the Aaron Team”; and going on to 
    state categorically that “the Aaron Team is not relevant…!” If 
    anybody were trying to throw a spanner in the works of your 
    massively succeeding peace efforts, they could not have used more 
    inflammatory language. Which statement has since sent shockwaves 
    down many foreign diplomatic spines, by the way….
This is not to say that we are unaware of the divisions in the 
    camps of the militias (born-again or not) that may have led to the 
    conflicting statements regarding the existence of MEND or relevance 
    of the Aaron Team from the men-of-the-creeks. That may be as it 
    may.
But you are our national leader, with a better idea of what the 
    wrong perceptions of insecurity can cost Nigeria. Which is why you 
    are doing all that is possible to not only earn Nigerians a true 
    and sustainable peace nationwide, but also to ensure that there are 
    no perceptions to the contrary.
If that truly is your objective, sir (and we want to believe 
    that it is!), we advise you to heed the call by the Niger Delta 
    Elders and Leaders Forum, and call General Abbe to order 
    immediately and in no uncertain terms. This is a democracy, and 
    you, President Yar’Adua are our only President. Any inauspicious or 
    militaristic attempts at treating any of Nigeria’s peoples as 
    conquered POWs must be discouraged, before we inadvertently create 
    an environment that pushes us headlong, once again, into the 
    anarchy of military rule.
Please, stop Abbe, and his ilk, from masquerading as “the man at 
    the top”…unless we are to believe that you share ultimate executive 
    power with him. Shalom.
