OSUN STATE UNIVERSITY
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR
PMB 4494, Osogbo, Osun State Nigeria
Tel: 

E-mail: 

REG/ESTAB/
16th February, 2010.
Dr. , 
     
Department of Economics,
Faculty of Social Sciences,
 University,
.
Dear Dr. ,
OFFER OF APPOINTMENT AS A VISITING SENIOR 
    LECTURER
I write on behalf of the Governing Council of Osun State 
    University, Osogbo to offer you visiting appointment as a 
    Senior Lecturer in the Department of Economics 
    & Management Sciences, College of 
    Management & Social Sciences of this 
    University. This appointment shall be under the following terms:
1. The appointment which is for the period of one year shall be 
    subject to your being declared medically fit, with effect from date 
    of assumption;
2. The duties of your post shall be such as your Head of 
    Department may direct from time to time.
3. The appointment would automatically lapse if nothing is heard 
    from you within two (2) months from the date of the offer. Your 
    salary will be placed on CONUASS 5 (N2,015,716.80k - 
    N2,905,070.40k);
4. You shall not at anytime during your employment hereunder 
    undertake any paid or other continuous work with parties outside 
    the University without the consent of the Governing Council;
5. The appointment will terminate by either party hereto giving 
    the other a three-month notice in writing of intention to do so (or 
    by tendering payment of three months' salary in lieu of 
    notice) unless the consent of the Council has otherwise been 
    obtained. The notice of your intention to terminate the appointment 
    should coincide with the end of session;
6. The Council may determine your appointment in the event of 
    any misconduct or persistent unpunctuality, neglect of duty or 
    breach of any rules or regulations made by the Council.
7. I enclose herewith another copy of this letter. If you decide 
    the offer of appointment on the terms set out above, please sign 
    the copy over a N50.00 stamp;
8. Also enclosed is a copy each of Medical Examination Form and 
    Personal Data Form, which should be completed and returned to the 
    Registrar within three (3) weeks, together with your acceptance 
    letter.
Please, accept our hearty congratulations.
Yours faithfully,

Dr.   
    , JP
Registrar 
