XXX UNIVERSITY, NIGERIA
CENTRE FOR DISTANCE LEARNING
Director: Professor 
e-mail: 
Website: 
Our Ref: CDL/10
Your Ref: 
Date: 23rd Nov., 2007
Dr. X. X. 
    
Department of English
Dear Sir/Madam
Letter of Appointment
I write on behalf of the Centre for Distance Learning, 
     University, 
    , Nigeria to offer you an appointment 
    as a Part-Time Instructor/Examiner/Co-ordinator in 
    English in the University's Pre-Degree 
    Programme located at the  Study Centre, 
    , along  Road for the 
    2007/2008 Session. You will be required to perform your teaching 
    assignment as directed by the Centre for Distance Learning and the 
    Coordinator of the Pre-Degree Programme.
You will be expected to conduct regular tests and assignments 
    during the contact period for the purpose of continuous assessment 
    of the students. You will, in addition, be required to submit 
    questions and marking schemes at the end of each term to the 
    Coordinator of the Programme who will arrange for the vetting and 
    processing of the questions. Please note that the Centre of 
    Distance Learning will demand for your lecture notes two months 
    after the commencement of lectures. The philosophy of the 
    Pre-Degree Programme is that it will be run in a way that strikes 
    in and closures of the parent University campus will not affect 
    academic activities of the programme. Also the programme's 
    academic session is made of two contact periods and each contact 
    period is for 15 weeks.
The following enhanced remunerations will be paid on the 
    different aspects of the assignment as they apply to you:
(i) Honorarium for teaching at N  per contact hour 
    (English)
(ii) Honorarium for teaching at N  per contact hour 
    (Other subjects)
(iii) Lump-sum for Coordination of any subject - N  
    per contact period
(iv) Transport Allowance - N /trip
(v) Setting of questions - N /subject (to be 
    pro-rated)
(vi) Marking/Grading of Examination Scripts - N 
    /Script.
(vii) Supervision during Examinations - N 
    /Subject
(viii) Invigilation during Examinations - N 
    /Subject
If this offer is acceptable to you, please signify in writing 
    within one-week of receiving this letter your willingness to 
    participate in the programme.
Please find attached a copy of the time-table for the 
    programme.
Thank you.
Yours faithfully,

Professor X. X. 
    
Director
