Dear Prof.  
    ,
I acknowledge, with gladness, your offer of a place, 
    with full bursary, in the Summer School on 
    Corpus Phonology, which notification I only just read. I hereby 
    accept the offer.
Please book my flight. I wish to arrive 
     about four days before the 
    commencement of the programme, to enable me adjust to the new 
    environment. I also wish to depart, about four days after the end 
    of the programme, to give me some time to absorb and organise 
    knowledge gained from the experience.
Once more, I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity 
    for my professional improvement. I look forward to reading from you 
    again soon.
Sincerely yours,
  
    .
Dear ,
Please proceed to arrange for 
    accomodation within the means you can afford, i.e to 
    cover the period you have specified - August 16 to 23rd. I have no 
    plans for any extra arrangements, please. I shall adjust to your 
    time table. Thank you.
Sincerely yours,
.
Dear ,
I have received and read your mail informing me of the flights 
    and hotel arrangements you have made for me, towards the summer 
    school programme. Thank you. I also look forward to receiving the 
    promised letter, to facilitate the processing of my travel 
    documment.
I look forward to receiving more details about the programme, as 
    well as meeting you.
Thank you.
Sincerely yours,
.
Dear Prof.  
    ,
I commenced procedures yesterday - after waiting about one month 
    to get an intrnational 
    passport - towards getting a German visa for my intended journey to 
     on August 14. The earliest interview 
    date available, and for which I have been scheduled is August 
    12.
With depature date being 
    August 14, and the usual slow pace of such processes back here ( as 
    I ealier 
    hintend in a previous mail to you 
    ), I'm worried that I may not be able to get a visa in time 
    for my journey.
I crave your to help quicken the issuance to me, of the German 
    visa, which is the most relevant requirement for my attendance at 
    the Summer School, which I look forward to. If I could obtain the 
    visa by next week, I'll be glad, and conclude other 
    preparations for my journey in August.
I have forwarded a scanned copy of my appointment letter for 
    interview for the German visa, which contains relevant information, 
    with this mail to you. In case it becomes necessary, my mobile 
    phone number reads thus: .
I'll be glad to read from you soon, on this matter. Thank 
    you.
Sincerely yours,
Ms.  
    .
Dear Prof. ,
I'm glad to read from you this morning, as that hasn't 
    happened for sometime now.I must say, 
    it's been hectic trying to register my request for an early 
    visa at the consulate.
However, I'm glad to inform you I've passed through 
    the interview stage yesterday. I made my request, and later spoke 
    with the visa officer,
Mrs , who gave me her phone 
    number to call her on the morning of my departure - 14th August - 
    for confirmation. I'm hoping that with my 
    depature date on my E-ticket, 
    and time table for the workshop, I'll be 
    oblidged with an early visa. 
    If you could do anything to further this, it 
    would be comforting. I don't know how feasible it'll be 
    for you to reach her on phone - .
Another question bothered me as I took a closer look at my 
    E-ticket and movement plans for my journey. Arrival at 
     Airport is for 15th of August, while 
    arrival at the hotel is for 16th August. M 
    y questions are:
1. What happens to my movement from15th at11:25, when I arrive 
     Airport, to 16th, when I'm 
    supposed to check into the hotel?
2. How may I get from  to 
     - central station -, 
    since it's my first time. 
    Will there be someone to meet me?
Kindly inform me sufficiently, and soon too, to enable me set 
    out confidently. These directions are not included in what 
    I've received so far. If I'm to pay my way till I meet 
    you, I'll also like to have a good idea of the fares. Thank 
    you.
I'm glad to inform you that I was able to get some of the 
    data you requetsed. I truly 
    look forward to seeing you on Monday. Thank you.
Best Regards,
  
    .
Dear ,
Thanks for your mail. I've seen the copy of my invitation, 
    which you said you've sent to the German embassy and the visa 
    call centre in Nigeria. I hope you sent it with the request? I ask 
    this becuase I didn't see 
    any accompanying letter. I also hope your letter to them will be 
    acknowledged, with willingness to grant the request.
I would be glad if you would communicate these responses to me, 
    as soon as you receive same. I'm hoping these steps should be 
    helpful, thanking you for your efforts so far.
Best wishes,
.
