James
January 1997
"Erika?“
He looked so different from his pictures. He was much taller and 
    more handsome than I thought. And if he hadn’t called me by my 
    name, I would never have known it was him. Erika was the name we 
    both agreed on over the Internet before I applied for my 
    international passport. He could not pronounce my name “Ngozi” and 
    no matter how much I coached him when he called, there was no way 
    his Caucasian tongue could roll out the name correctly. Erika was a 
    beautiful name and it sounded like Africa. I always wanted to be 
    known as something else other than Ngozi.
“James?” I said slowly, hoping he was indeed the one.
“Yes, it’s me.” He said and he hugged me.
He was a tall man and I could feel my bones crush against his 
    frame. I smelt him for the first time and wondered if the tobacco 
    smell on him was any indication of what kind of person he was. I 
    looked up into his green eyes when he stepped back and smiled.
“Is that all you have?” He asked pointing at my two red 
    suitcases. I nodded. “Okay then, let’s get you out of here.”
He grabbed my luggage like a gentleman and I followed him 
    through the sea of people who were reunited with loved ones. Black, 
    Indian and white strangers leered, trying to lure you to take a 
    ride with them for a cheaper fare than the registered black taxis. 
    I saw strange policemen with shining helmets, bullet-proof vests 
    and dangerous-looking weapons. Then there were the moneychangers, 
    telephone booths, shops and neon lights giving the lounge a surreal 
    quality. I tried to take in everything as I hurried after him. 
    There were just so many people of different colours and languages 
    and they all seemed to be in a hurry. I wanted to stop for a moment 
    to look but James was already far ahead of 
    me. I saw him stop briefly and look back at me.
“Hurry up, love.” He called out to me. “This is rush hour.”
And so I hurried up to him and followed him to the Underground. 
    He asked me if I had any money on me and I told him I did. I had 
    £500. He took £50 from me and paid for our tickets. I watched him 
    pocket the change, but I was so wrapped up in my surroundings and 
    the experience that I didn’t mind. I was subconsciously comparing 
    and contrasting in my mind the difference between Nigeria and this 
    new land, England. I had expected much more based on the stories 
    and the perception I had from watching movies, reading books and 
    magazines and also from the stories carried over by the more 
    privileged girls I had known.
I remembered Tiffany Okoro who lived across the street from me 
    when I was in my teens. She always spent the summer holidays in 
    London. She had pictures of herself at Trafalgar Square, in front 
    of shops in Oxford Street and sometimes in front of impressive 
    monumental statues. It was all so beautiful in the pictures. 
    Arriving here I had almost expected to see roads paved with silver 
    if not gold trimmings, people dressed like fashion models in the 
    imported magazines at Princess’s beauty shop back home; happy 
    smiling faces all around me and of course money strewn everywhere, 
    begging you to please pick it up and stuff it in your jackets.
But so far, I was cold. I was wearing a thin, woolen sweater 
    over a peach-coloured cotton blouse. I had no idea! In Nigeria, 
    cold and frosty would translate to the dry harmattan of the Jos 
    Plateau and in the harmattan we wore sweaters in the morning and 
    took them off in the scorching hot afternoon when the sun dominated 
    the day. So I had my woollen sweater and thankfully a scarf, which 
    I had bought off a street urchin while I sat in a commercial bus 
    during one of Lagos’ legendary traffic standstills. I secured the 
    scarf round my neck and followed James as he led me to the waiting 
    train. Piccadilly line.
The train was full. There was no more room and already quite a 
    number of commuters were standing and holding on to an overhead 
    rail support. James pushed his way in and I followed him. A vivid 
    image of a Lagos 
    molué bus flashed 
    through my mind–33 sitting, 50 standing–and I felt no safer in this 
    contraption.
“Are you alright?” James asked, smiling into my face.
“Yes.” I lied. What else could I say? I smiled back at him and 
    tried to ignore the many pimples that riddled his face. He told me 
    he was twenty-eight in the course of our electronic exchanges. He 
    looked twenty-two or maybe younger. I told him I was eighteen. I 
    was much older. The lies we tell ourselves when we desperately want 
    to believe in something else. I was used to those lies. My life was 
    built on that very foundation.
“Your skin is so beautiful.” He whispered into my ears. “I 
    really could not imagine it even with all our emails and chats and 
    pictures we exchanged.”
“Really?” I said uncomfortably. He was pressed against me with 
    his free hand squeezing my buttocks and I was sure more than one 
    passenger observed us. I was not used to this kind of public 
    display and I wasn’t okay with it. Regardless of how many times we 
    had spoken to each other or emailed each other, he was essentially 
    still a stranger to me. His hand was squeezing my buttocks and I 
    wanted to push him away.
I was right–people were watching us, particularly an elderly 
    black woman who stood on the other side of the carriage. Her eyes 
    had locked with mine. There were sad eyes. African eyes. Eyes that 
    must have witnessed many things. For a moment, I thought I saw her 
    shake her head at me. When I looked again to confirm, she was 
    watching the door as the rain approached a stop.
“I’m so excited that you are finally here.” James was saying. “I 
    can almost not believe it.”
“Me too.” I said, trying hard to be excited. I was suddenly so 
    afraid. I didn’t know what had happened to the thrill I felt when I 
    left Nigeria. At that moment I wanted to be back home.
“We have so much to talk about.” James said.
I smiled without saying anything. If I had answered him, that 
    would have encouraged him to keep talking. I buried my face in his 
    chest with a show of feigned tiredness and he held me closer.
We changed trains once or twice, I can’t really remember. But I 
    remember the icy cold wind that hit me when we left the train 
    station and took a double-decker bus heading for Camberwell. Those 
    buses are true icons of England that many Africans have imprinted 
    in their subconscious. All the pictures I had seen of England had 
    the double-decker buses in the background along with pictures taken 
    beside the wax images of Madame Tussaud’s. That was the London we 
    all knew. And for some weird reason, this was motivation enough for 
    many to want to come to London.
I was thrilled to board the bus. James took more money from me 
    to pay the ride, but I didn’t mind, I was taking a ride in the 
    white man’s 
    molué. What else could 
    be more exhilarating than this? I almost forgot about how cold I 
    was.
“We are almost there now.” James said.
We got off at the next stop. We crossed the road, passed a BT 
    telephone booth that had posters of naked women with phone numbers 
    on their naked chests, passed a narrow alley and a barricaded 
    playground and then we arrived at a block of flats.
Belham Close.
“That’s us, love.” James announced grandly, pointing to a window 
    on the third floor of yet another brick building. I quickly noticed 
    the Indian-owned convenience store and the meat shop on the ground 
    floor. Further down was a stationery store that doubled as a post 
    office and another shop. I took all this in within seconds, but the 
    thing that stood out most was the white man with filthy long 
    dreadlocks who sat by the entrance of the building. His hair was a 
    mix of dark brown and blond highlights. He had a rainbow-coloured 
    scarf wrapped around his neck and was hugging a torn and tattered 
    black overcoat that was missing a number of buttons. The navy green 
    khaki trousers he wore were soiled in various places and his torn 
    boots exposed one of his big fat toes. Beside him on the wet floor 
    was a bottle wrapped in a brown bag and several discarded cigarette 
    stubs as well as an old but well-preserved guitar.
As I waited nervously for James to open the door with his pass, 
    I felt a hand tug at my dress. I looked down in shock and saw the 
    piercing blue eyes of this white Rastafarian smile up at me and at 
    the same time noticed the hand that grabbed my dress. His 
    fingernails were black and they shot out from a black woollen glove 
    with the finger area cut off deliberately I imagined. I whimpered 
    audibly.
“Spare us some change, luv!” This rancid man said to me.
I looked up at James and before I could say or do anything, he 
    had pulled me aside and was kicking the man squarely on the face, 
    shoulder and anywhere he could get his foot to connect with.
“Stop hitting me, man.” The stranger cried. “Why you hitting an 
    old man like me?”
“I’ve told you to stay away from here!” James screamed. “How 
    dare you touch my woman? What the hell’s wrong with you?”
“Okay, man! Stop kicking me. I’m sorry okay!” He cried through 
    his bloodied lips.
When James finally stopped, he spat on the destitute man and 
    turned round to look at me. He smiled and suddenly his demeanour 
    transformed back to the calm man who met me at the airport. At that 
    point, I wasn’t sure whom I was terrified of the more.
“Are you okay?” He asked. “Are you alright?”
I simply nodded and the smile widened across his whole face. I 
    felt a cold fear then. There was something in his smile that 
    unnerved me – the upward tilt of his lips, the brilliance of this 
    emerald eyes and the knowledge I now had that a wicked violence hid 
    beneath it all.
He finally got the door open and we shuffled into a passageway 
    with a flight of stairs that led up to the flats. It was a dirty 
    hallway with graffiti-covered walls and underneath the stairs there 
    were signs of a fire that had been put out before any real damage 
    could occur. It smelt badly and there was also discarded garbage on 
    the floor, crumpled wrappers of chocolate, chips, sweets and nylon 
    bags.
We climbed up the stairs and encountered some children playing 
    outside their flats. Most of these kids were either black or of 
    mixed parentage. I heard loud music blaring out of some flats and 
    smelt the acrid whiff of marijuana. Ours was the fourth flat. I 
    could see into the kitchen of my neighbour’s flat and I noticed a 
    rather big woman staring at us as we passed by. She looked like an 
    African woman from the typical African print dress she wore and the 
    headgear that was wrapped round her head. She followed us with her 
    eyes as if looking for the next story to gossip with her 
    market-time cronies. This time it would be of the black woman with 
    the ginger-headed 
    oyinbo. I thought I had 
    finally left Nigeria, but it seemed Africa was waiting for me right 
    on my doorstep in Belham Close, Camberwell.
James and I met five years earlier. It was the eve of my 
    twenty-first birthday and I had just left work. I was a helper in a 
    beauty shop, earning a moderate-enough salary that allowed me to 
    barely survive a full month even though I had shared an apartment 
    with two other single ladies, Princess and Uloma, in Herbert 
    Macaulay Street, Lagos. It was Princess who had saved me a year 
    earlier and allowed me to stay with both of them and offered me 
    work in her beauty saloon.
That night I found myself in a cybercafé after work. I had 
    joined an Internet dating site a week before and up till that point 
    I had had no hits on my profile. It all changed that night. As soon 
    as I logged on with my cyber name AfricanWomanSearching, I noticed 
    I had several messages from someone named Ja_King. The first 
    message read:
