Mazi Ogaranya, the 'Agada-gbachiri-uzo and one of the 
    kingmakers in the ALL- COMERS PARTY - ACP. was a house-hold name in 
    Imo State. He held ten chieftaincy titles for doing one thins or 
    the other. For instance, he was conferred with the chieftaincy 
    title of 'ONWA- N'ETiRl-OHA' ONE' of Umuoke 
    autonomous community because he was instrumental to the recognition 
    of the traditional ruler of the community by the government.
The traditional ruler of Umuoke, His Royal Highness, the Urnu of 
    Umuoke, Eze Mbekwu, the Okaa-Omee One, had joined his ancestors at 
    the age of one hundred and twenty years. The treasured the one 
    became vacant and it was keenly competed for by three distinguished 
    'Sons of the Soil'. Each of the aspirants lobbied 
    extensively for government recognition. Chief Emela had donated to 
    the party, ~ car and twenty thousand naira cash through the Second 
    National Chairman. At an executive meeting of the party, the 
    political activities of the aspirants were fully analysed and Chief 
    Emela scored the highest mark. Besides, he had pledged to make the 
    entire community an unpleasant zone for any party other than the 
    ACP.
When the lobbying was going on, Chief Kami. One of the 
    contestants had made a five thousand naira donation through a 
    middleman.
Onwuka was one of those smart fellows who knew all the known 
    political juggernauts and caterpillars. He was a swindler of the 
    first order and a political chameleon. He had approached Chief Kanu 
    and promised to present his case before the National President of 
    the Party and the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy 
    Affairs, who, according to him, were his good friends.
"Are you sure you can see these people on my behalf?" 
    Kanu had eagerly enquired.
"Sum men!" he confirmed in 
    American slang.
"I'll be very grateful if you could introduce me to 
    them so that I could be recognised as the traditional 
    ruler".
Well, men, you gonna do something 
    quickly, you know - you see warer I 
    mean".
"Okay, what do you think would go as kola and dash?" 
    Kanu requested.
"Since I now know you are serious, let us talk business. 
    You see, I would be having tea with the National President of our 
    Great Party in his residence at seven o'clock this evening. We 
    are going to plan a new strategy for the forthcoming general 
    elections and I can seize the opportunity to discuss your matter 
    with him. The Commissioner would also be there..."
"Good, what do I do?"
"You have to lobby harder than the other contestants. They 
    had already approached me on the same issue, but I never gave them 
    my promise since I have you in mind.
"I am prepared to lobby with one thousand naira..."
"You ate not serious. Do you think you are in the United. 
    States where lobby has a different meaning from what it is known in 
    Nigeria? If you are serious, the minimum is ten thousand naira. and 
    as you know ten percent of it would go to the Patty's coffer 
    as kickback".
'Al-right,"
"When do I collect it? the sooner the better for 
    you".
"This evening..."
"See you then."
And so, when Chief Emela was crowned the traditional ruler of 
    Umuoke, many distinguished personalities, including Mazi Ogaranya, 
    were conferred with chieftaincy titles in appreciation of their 
    'transparent honesty and untiring efforts to bring development 
    to Umnuoke autonomous community".
Mazi was really a factor to be reckoned with politically and 
    because of his expanded chains of business enterprises, he 
    preferred an independent life to holding any elective post. He had 
    ten limited liability companies each independent of the other 
    although with common aims and objectives. Because of his political 
    influence. Mazi Ogaranya enjoyed party patronage, perhaps to 
    compensate him for his devotion to the Party's cause.
The City Electrical and Electronics (Nigeria) Limited won the 
    two hundred million naira rural electrification contract. The 
    contract was abandoned after one hundred and twenty million naira 
    mobilization fee had been paid. Of the amount, the Party received 
    five million naira kick-back. The 'Water Works (Nigeria) 
    Limited was awarded the fifty million naira contract to supply 
    water to a new layout without any tender not to talk of applying 
    for it. Thirty million naira mobilization fee was paid and out of 
    the lot, the party had one point five million naira kick-back. A 
    few pipes were laid after some economic trees had been destroyed 
    The job was abandoned a few weeks after receiving the mobilization 
    fee.
Each of the ten companies received party patronage in a big way. 
    Every company acquired many plots without paying the normal 
    registration fee.
The Afro Construction Company Ltd. an arm of the chains 
    of business that specialised in buildings was awarded the contract 
    to build more than seventy percent of low income houses in Aba, 
    Umuahia, Okigwe, Orlu and Owerri. It also handled many units of 
    same type of buildings scattered in almost all the post-primary 
    institutions in the state as teachers' quarters. The contract 
    was negotiated dining a cock-tail party in honour of a visiting 
    party stalwart from a neighbouring state. The contract agreement 
    was signed leer a mobilization fee of one point five million naira 
    had been paid into the company's coffer with fifty thousand 
    naira kickback So the party.
The Chairman of all the group of companies, Mazi Ogaranya gave 
    appointments to many people, especially beautiful girls. There were 
    those whose major schedule of duties was to serve tea to the Senior 
    Officers. Management members could employ messengers, cleaners and 
    labourers only while the Chairman/Managing Director employed 
    clerical staff of all grades. Some of the appointments were made in 
    the hotels and party rallies. At any rate, all appointments were 
    ratified by the Administrative Manager who also acted as the 
    Secretary to the Group of Companies.
Many young boys and girls had left the rural areas for brighter 
    and more challenging life in the cities. They had heard many 
    stories of life in the cities, easy employment, easier way of 
    making money than in the villages, disco clubs, streets lined with 
    gold and what-have-you. Many teenage girls had found employments in 
    hotels run and organised by Party loyalists. Some had found jobs in 
    Party offices while many others roamed about the streets and 
    offices looking for any type of employment.
Mazi Ogaranya's chain of business enterprises gave 
    employment to many girls who in turn were expected to keep to the 
    Group's motto of 'Kindness gives birth to kindness'. 
    It was no secret that the Managing Director expected those 
    beautiful 'things' in his companies to 
    'service' him at will without grumbling. The Executive 
    Officers also had 'eyes' on the beauties but could not 
    penetrate deep for fear of being disciplined by the Managing 
    Director.
One of such beauties was Ngozi, a receptionist in one of the 
    companies. She had been tried by all the men who were men in the 
    companies and they found her tough and principled. The Chairman had 
    invited her one Friday morning for a chat. On that particular day, 
    Ngozi was very impressively dressed. Her hair-do was superb. Her 
    gown, which never went beyond the knee cap and gathered around the 
    waist, added more weight to her dancing buttocks. The open chest 
    gown told tales of romance. Her round face with nice little red 
    painted-soft-lips and searching eyes brought down to earth the 
    Managing Director's wandering memory.
She was a hypnotist!
"Good morning sir".
"Ah, the greatest daughter of Africa, sit down and how is 
    life treating you?
"Fine, thank you".
"What's the name again?"
"Ngozi..."
Ah...Ngorbabe"
"Thank you sir".
"Forget about sir' when you are in my office. We are 
    here on a different frequency all together - okay?"
"But sir
'Look, Ngor, you are the most durable personality I have 
    ever come across, the light of the world, the cool evening breeze 
    that restores life to the dying, green vegetation that gives 
    natural beauty to a city..."
"Am sorry sir, I do not and will not merit all the praises 
    you've showered on me. They belong to the Almighty God who is 
    durable and gives life to the dying..."
"Well, don't misunderstand me because, as you've 
    noticed. I love you so much that without you by my side always, my 
    life will be gone and useless...."
"Am sorry sir, I...I...I mean I don't understand 
    you".
Ngozi stammered as she fumbled with the little handbag she had 
    placed on the executive table.
"I see. Well what's your time table for this evening? 
    I ask this because I expect some V.I.Ps in my house 
    this evening and I have listed your name as one of those who would 
    serve them, you know".
"Incidentally sir, I have crowded programmes for this 
    evening and tomorrow also, I am going to have a busy 
    weekend..."
"I see, are you expecting your B. F. for the 
    week-end...?
"Sorry sir. I don't understand you"
"I mean will your boyfriend be around this evening?
"Not at all sir, and incidentally I have only 
    'JESUS' as my boyfriend. We have Bible Studies this 
    evening. One of our members is wedding tomorrow and I am her Chief 
    Bridesmaid. On Sunday, we'll all follow the new couple to the 
    church and what follows after the thanks-giving service may also 
    take the greater part of the day".
"You are a Pastor, I guess?"
"I am not, nor do I hope to be one unless it is the will of 
    JESUS that I should serve Him up to that level for who am 
    Ito disobey my Saviour'? Jonah 
    of all people tried it and found out that it paid him no dividend 
    to kick his foot against the rock....".
"Thank you for your preaching. I am happy to hear from you 
    that you cannot disobey heavenly order. Wait until you go to that 
    your fabulous heaven but as long as you are in this world and in my 
    company, any instruction or order that I give MUST, repeat MUST be 
    carried out
"I quite agree with you sir provided the instruction or 
    order does not conflict with my private life."
"Is that what you have to say to me, pretty girl? Never 
    mind for I'll take very good care of your private life. In 
    fact it is your private and not the official one, that I want. You 
    are my staff and I am your employer, therefore a farmer is entitled 
    to eat the food from his own farmland to borrow the language of 
    your bible.
"I wouldn't subscribe to that theory of a farmer 
    you've just propounded. I am here to serve the company based 
    on my own schedule of duties and anything outside that am afraid 
    may not be met with..."
"It's all right Ngozi! There is no more long grammar 
    there. The instruction is clear. I want you in my house this 
    evening at six. I will certainly pay you extra for that. I mean 
    you'll love a repeat performance on your own for your reward 
    will be very great. After all, I am going to promote you from 
    salary grade level 05 to grade level 08 for your dedication to 
    duty. I will also give you, free of charge, a well furnished two 
    bedroom flat at the Aladinma Housing Estate. Besides these, 
    you'll have a car loan, big enough to buy any car of your 
    choice".
"Oh! you are very great sir. This shows that you really 
    love me. I am very grateful for that. But you see, earthly things 
    cannot and will never make me go contrary to my belief. As a 
    Christian, it is my belief that one day, God will send a friend, a 
    husband to me. He may be very poor, poorer than a church rat. it 
    does not matter because with 'JESUS' by our side we shall 
    move in the way of the Lord. I am a woman. I agree, but wish to 
    remind you that I am not like the rest of other girls who are after 
    worldly things. I do not say I hate money. I do not say I hate 
    cars. I do not say I hate to live in furnished flat. All these 
    things are good. If it is the will of God. I shall get them through 
    the right way in the name of JESUS. Amen!..."
"Local preacher, I see. The whole thing is now simple. It 
    is either you obey the instruction and be better than you are today 
    or lose your job..."
"I'll rather lose my job than lose my soul. I hereby 
    resign my appointment with immediate effect."
Ngozi walked Out of the office, wrote her resignation letter, 
    handed it over to the Personnel Manager and left the office after 
    saying 'good bye to her colleagues.
As soon as the Personnel Manager read the letter, he called for 
    Ngozi's file. In the absence of one month's notice Ngozi 
    gave a month's salary as contained in the company's 
    scheme of service. The Personnel Manager accepted the resignation. 
    He took the file to the Chairman for his information. Mazi Ogaranya 
    wasn't happy when he saw that the Personnel Manager had 
    accepted the resignation and had closed her file. He wanted her to 
    be dismissed but the Manager had a different view.

