"That one called Babby is a wise owl, you know? And, I tell 
    you, he will need to be watched very closely. Did you notice the 
    penetrating and suspicious looks he kept throwing at us at the 
    university party?" Stella asked excitedly, directing her 
    question to no one in particular among the other four girls present 
    with her that afternoon in the sitting-room of the small fiat they 
    shared.
"You're quite right there but we'll take care of 
    him neat and easy, no doubt, if he makes any funny moves. 
    We'll be fully ready and more than a match for him," 
    enjoined Grace.
"Oh! But we all know his type - the inquisitive, 
    all-knowing uncle or senior brother nobody really takes to heart. 
    My problem is: Alex seems to think the world of him and that could 
    prove a little tricky in the end if not properly handled. But I 
    trust you girls will floor him for me bye-the-bye before he knows 
    what hits him," that was Gift, Alex's special date among 
    the lot.
"And anyway, did you all notice the way he was all over 
    Alero at that party? Not that she was unwilling herself, though, 
    anyone could see that much from a mile off. They definitely must 
    have something going between them, I'm sure!" contributed 
    Ufuoma.
"Only Alex, of all people, is blind to the fact and 
    doesn't seem to think so. When I teased him about it sometime 
    later he said he was sure they were just plain good friends and 
    nothing more to it," Gift said, sounding rather 
    exasperated.
"But that's perfectly understandable, now! He would be 
    the last person either of the lovebirds would run to, to confide 
    in. And anyway, he's got his hands full for some time now with 
    a sizzling affair of his own on account of our great Gift 
    here," Stella observed.
"Look! You girls just have to be very careful and play this 
    right if we are to make anything of our plans to make an inroad 
    into the university. These 'academic' people are gullible 
    and easy preys in relationships only so long as they have complete 
    trust and confidence in their partners. The slightest trace or 
    suspicion of infidelity sends them scurrying away like frightened 
    fowls. Believe me, I know for sure because I've seen much of 
    them at close quarters," Ngozi opined. She was the eldest, 
    most experienced, leader and moving spirit of the pack though, in 
    fact, she was not much older than the others and definitely not 
    more distinguishable by physique.
"Experience! Experience talking! City babe!" others 
    hailed and giggled girlishly together, demurely concurring as they 
    did so to the voice of reason as just expressed.
The girls were just relaxing and chatting in the moderately 
    furnished sitting-room of the one bedroom flat rented by Ngozi that 
    served as their communal abode. Ostensibly, they all worked as 
    Models and Client Service Executives for an Advertising, Modeling 
    and Public Relations Agency in the city with Ngozi serving in an 
    unofficial role of coordinator. It was not clearly spelt out and no 
    one ever bothered to ask or find out whether she actually worked 
    for the agency or for the girls as she cleverly positioned herself 
    solidly and manoeuvreed 
    smoothly between both sides and enjoyed the largesse of both. In 
    reality they were plain city girls, happy daughters of the system; 
    smooth operators and ruthless hustlers readily available for all 
    and any kind of services so long as reasonable money was paid and 
    rollicking good time was on the plate. They were all fired with the 
    ambition of 'making it' in this impersonal and ruthless 
    city. No one ever attempted to define for them - and they never 
    bothered to know for sure - what this 'making it' really 
    meant or entailed. For them, renting and lavishly furnishing a 
    flat, or even a duplex apartment; owning and driving around in a 
    flashy, state-of-the-art car or two (odd and even numbered for 
    everyday mobility); having a wardrobe filled with designer outfits 
    made from special, exotic fabrics of all makes, expensive perfumes, 
    jewellery and numerous other accesories; having good times with the 
    movers and shakers of commerce and industry and rubbing shoulders 
    with society bigwigs in all the hot spots around the city; and, 
    perhaps, making an advantageous marriage in which one never had to 
    work or earn a living by toiling hard or soiling one's hands 
    were all on the cards and formed parts of the dream, this mirage or 
    illusory grandeur of 'making it', doing so 'big 
    time' and in style. And, to be fair, few examples of women who 
    have 'made it' in this manner, for them to look up to, 
    strive to emulate and even surpass were never in short supply 
    around.
They had met Alex at one of the numerous parties he attended 
    during the first long vacation from the university that Babby had 
    declined to attend on account of his decision to keep his social 
    engagements low-keyed while living with the Thomas family. They 
    contrived that initial contact in such a way that made a favourable 
    impression on Alex. One thing had led to another and he ended up in 
    a hot, frenzied tango of an affair with Gift.
Though he casually mentioned meeting some girls at a party to 
    Babby in some discussions later, he managed, successfully, to keep 
    the affair very much under wraps at least until that day of the 
    party in the university. It was Alero that somehow remembered much 
    later that the girls had been part of the large crowd of guests 
    that attended the Christmas-cum-birthday party of the previous 
    December. Alex knew very little or nothing really about these girls 
    beyond the fact that they were hot models (guaranteed by their 
    stunning looks and cute figures) and busy 'executives' 
    for a thriving and reputable agency in the city. For him their 
    elegant and considerable wardrobe,wide range 
    of contacts and acquaintances in the city's business and 
    social circles and the crowded daily schedules of official 
    engagements they made him believe they kept eloquently attested to 
    that. He knew the location of the flat they lived in as he had come 
    around there on uncountable occasions to pick up or drop off Gift 
    but they somehow contrived to ensure that he never entered it.
On their part, they had spotted and picked out Alex from the 
    beginning as a spoilt and loaded but largely inexperienced city 
    brat, the scion of a well-heeled family, and an excellent catch for 
    whichever girl among them was fortunate enough to have caught his 
    fancy. They had heard, no doubt, of the family's fabulous 
    wealth from the city's vivacious rumour mill. But he was also 
    seen as a highly valued contact and useful bridge to what they 
    perceived as the exclusive and elitist university people. They 
    therefore planned meticulously together to keep him on tenterhooks 
    all the time and to make him think highly of them as friendly and 
    concerned for him. Together, they discussed and analyzed to the 
    minutest details all aspects of his relationship with them, 
    particularly his affair with Gift, under the direct supervision of 
    Ngozi. They had enjoyed themselves thoroughly at that August party 
    and had gradually become known faces on the campus particularly 
    since Alex became the union President.
Within a period of just over two months after that unforgettable 
    party the university had resumed for the new session: 
    students' union electioneering activities had been mounted, 
    the election proper had been conducted and the results had been 
    duly declared. Alex had assumed the position of union President 
    having won the election to the post by what was widely described as 
    a landslide victory. This time around, it was a relatively and 
    surprisingly easy, straightforward, two-cornered race on the 
    Presidential slot. This, it was noted, was largely to the 
    unbelievable popularity and acceptance enjoyed by Alex. His 
    opponent for the contest, the other aspirant, was generally 
    adjudged even by detractors to have put up a rather spineless, 
    lacklustre showing thereby handing Alex an easy, predictable 
    victory in what was widely agreed as a one-sided and unexciting 
    race. Alex had even moved into the official apartment of the 
    President hitherto occupied by his friend, Babby, who had quietly 
    relocated into another room in the hall of residence to which he 
    was entitled as a final year student. Things seemed to have been 
    moving at jet speed for and around the duo in their respective 
    careers in the university. Cast in the new role of 'the 
    immediate past President' and more importantly the National 
    President of N.A.S., Babby's image loomed 
    large in the union's politics. He was widely known to be a 
    close friend and confidante of the current union President and he 
    remained very visible in many of the activities in the S.U.B. though largely in the background, operating 
    quietly and generally foreshadowed by the campus President. They 
    appeared to be working happily at tandem, to blend together 
    remarkably well and to complement one another admirably in the 
    performance of their individual public roles.
This new role, however, actually meant much less workload in 
    union affairs for Babby and he therefore had more free time on his 
    hands to fully catch up with his academics which he had only barely 
    managed to string along with in the previous session. He also had 
    more time for his social life that was bourgeoning around his 
    intimate friendship with Alero. Hardly would a day pass by without 
    having them chat on the phone for a few minutes at least and he now 
    found more and more excuses to go into town, on the average of at 
    least once a week, to have lunch with her.
He began to think hard and frequently on the nature and 
    direction of his relationship with her and used every available 
    opportunity afforded by these contacts to probe and analyze her 
    true feelings towards him. On the whole he was happy and contented 
    with the state of affairs in this direction as he felt and found 
    out more and more and largely left it at that in the hope that 
    things would get clearer and hopefully much better as events 
    unfolded. The fact was that he could not, indeed dared not, admit 
    even to himself just yet the real uncontrollable feeling he was 
    beginning to harbour towards her, deep down in his heart, which he 
    somehow felt or rather sensed was quite reciprocal. But still, he 
    thought, he needed time to be very sure of these delicate 
    matters.
The short Christmas and New Year break of the university duly 
    came up and with it came an 'End-of-Year' party at the 
    residence of the Bayghos family on the last Saturday of the year. 
    It was as usual an elaborate and lavish affair at which food of all 
    sorts were served to every one's fill and the bar remained 
    open and inexhaustible for every taste or brand of exotic beverages 
    complete with a popular live band on stage. This time around Babby 
    was present in his trademark short-sleeved safari suit. In fact he 
    was one of the earliest arrivals. It was his first time in the 
    house and he was warmly received by all members of the family 
    particularly the father who seemed to be very delighted to meet him 
    at last.
"Ah, Welcome! Welcome here! So you are the Babby I've 
    heard so much about," the old mogul boomed out warmly with a 
    broad smile on his face and an outstretched hand.
"Thank you, sir. Thank you. And compliments of the season 
    to you, sir. I've looked forward so much to meeting you, 
    sir," Babby said, humbly taking the outstretched hand and 
    slightly surprised at the firm grip he encountered there.
"Well, well! Am delighted to meet you at last. Compliments 
    of the season to you too! Please, feel free around here and enjoy 
    yourself with us," the father, playing the chief host to the 
    hilt, offered airily with a slight sweep of his hands.
"Thank you, sir. Thank you. I certainly will enjoy myself, 
    sir," he replied.
"Fine, Fine! And make sure you see me sometime later before 
    you go away, okay?"
"That's okay by me, sir. I'll be glad 
    to."
The keen interest and full attention of nearly all members of 
    the family had been momentarily riveted on the duo while this 
    exchange lasted and a couple of them were slightly puzzled as to 
    what subject the old man would want to discuss later with Babby. 
    Nobody thought anything serious of the banter except, perhaps, 
    Alero who felt a slight tinge of excitement within her mixed with a 
    curious apprehension at the prospect of such further discussions 
    between the improbable duo.
