Chimezie and Chuby planned for the first exhibition at 
    Eze's mission which from newspaper accounts was a matter of a 
    few days. Chube had come down from the East as soon as Chimezie 
    phoned to tell him of the slate of things. When he heard of 
    Emeruo's death and Defo's miraculous survival, he felt 
    that his inquiry had caused all of it and he said this to Chimezie. 
    But when Chimezie talked about Emeruo's close connection with 
    his murderers, Chuby was tongue-tied. Okani's information had 
    let to a positive swing in police investigations. When Akonwa, the 
    drug dealer at Nkwoko heard of Defo's trouble, he volunteered 
    information freely, which led to the discovery of the den in the 
    mother-of-the-water's playground. The gang had scuffled away 
    before police could catch up with them. The priest of Okpoko, the 
    old man who was standing in for Ikwu before the attack on Okpoko, 
    was also arrested. Under questioning, he admitted that some men had 
    approached him to help them destroy Okpoko, but that he had refused 
    to have anything to do with it. He was detained for complicity and 
    the Search for Ikwu had produced no positive result. The police had 
    also stormed Odiari's house with no results. Odiari had denied 
    knowing any Bide and had demanded a public apology from the police 
    for the embarrassment they caused him.
Chuby had agreed to attend the first exhibition in disguise. 
    Chimezie was able to convince him to go. "It's the safest 
    option." he had told him. "He knows you for sure or they 
    wouldn't have been able to trail you to Nkwoko. But since you 
    dropped out of sight, he must have shifted his attention from you, 
    concentrating now on my family. Any how, we cannot take the risk of 
    involving another person in this who cannot command our 
    trust".
They had really tried to get a few responsible people to play 
    some part in that game but it had been obvious from the way the 
    people declined and the things some of them had said before that 
    they thought the Reverend extremely powerful. One of 
    Chimezie's acquaintances he asked to help had prayed in 
    Chimezie's presence that the Reverend might not discover of 
    their discussion through dream or any other way and thereby 
    liquidate him with his immense powers.
They were still talking when Defo entered. The two men looked at 
    him in acknowledgement of his presence, but Chuby's face was 
    abeam with smiles. "The man who defied death," he called 
    him. 'You don't look bad at all, just as strong as a 
    horse".
"If you say so", Defo said. He went to a chair and sat 
    down.
"It's like we are heading to the end of this event 
    without anything concrete... yet," Chuby suddenly said.
Defo regarded him. "We know the people involved. All we 
    need is strong evidence to nail them, which we me working up to. 
    That to me is not exactly nonsense".
"You always sound too optimistic," Chuby said 
    uncomfortably.
"Call it anything, if it is optimism, it is not unfounded. 
    Our man there says Eze will likely walk into our trap, at least Eze 
    for a start". He paused. "See... understand that our 
    sources, my sources of information there are very reliable. Odiari 
    is not a religious man so what is his business with idols and Eze? 
    Emeruo and Charlie's death and Ride's attempt to murder 
    me in broad daylight are Oduti's schemes. Because of 
    Eze's encounter with Chimezie and very likely because of 
    Odiari's visit there, the exhibition is now organised in two 
    separate days, the first day, a feint of a day to cast us off his 
    trail. Why does he take the trouble?'
Defo suddenly frowned, "they are very uncomfortable. How I 
    would like to see their faces! . . Swains. But their discomfort 
    bothers me. It is not Eze I fear. He is all mouth. Odiari is the 
    problem. He feels like a caged animal now. I learnt that he tried 
    to stop Eze from holding the exhibition at all costs and failed. He 
    may try to slop us. Either way we stand to lose. But if Eze goes 
    ahead with his plan, we may succeed We may find something to hook 
    him on. It is doubtful whether Eze even knows the gods'.
"How do we even recognise Okpoko when we see him?" 
    Chimezie asked diverting to a problem which had been bothering 
    him.
"I've been there." Chuby quickly said 
    "Though I am not sure that I can still visualize the 
    thing".
"I have a photograph of the oracle", said Defo fishing 
    in his pocket. He brought the picture out and handed it to 
    Chuby.
"How did you get it!" Chuby asked as he examined the 
    photograph intently. He finally shook his head and handed the 
    photograph to Chimezie. It was a large rather grotesque image, a 
    combination of natural and supernatural forms. Half man and half 
    angel, heavy of body but winged, seated, but looking as if resting 
    between flights.
"I had a great difficulty getting that photograph. On my 
    way to Odiari's place. I had gone through Uda hoping to find 
    Ikwu that we might go to Odiari together. Ikwu was not there but I 
    met his uncle who gave me that photograph after I told him that I 
    needed it to identify Okpoko in case I found him. He took it from a 
    large frame which Uda people had placed in Okpoko's altar. 
    They had been worshipping the photograph since the bad incident or 
    as the man said, since the mysterious turn of events in the 
    town'. So many bad things happening many of them ending in 
    death..."
"Ikwu said so", said Chimezie.
"Don't believe those crap. All that are just 
    coincidences", Chuby said.
Defo look the photograph from his brother and smiled in a 
    strange way. "Somehow I believe that photograph saved me at 
    Aba. I had it in my pocket when Bide shot at me. I just can't 
    explain how I survived that incident".
Chimezie had been staring at the table in front of them. From 
    the corner of his eye, he saw Chuby look in his direction.
"This world is really mysterious." Chimezie said. 
    "It is mysterious how good things happen to some and bad 
    things to others. Since Ajie was murdered in his own house with his 
    own children present, Papa has been arming himself seriously. He 
    even expressed satisfaction that all of us could shoot. I think he 
    is taking care of that. If we are attacked, we may not be an easy 
    army to assail. The only problem is walking around town because we 
    can't carry gun".
"Who is Ajie?" Chuby asked.
"Papa's friend. Thieves went to his house one night 
    and cut his throat in the presence of his children. It was 
    terrible".
"Horrible".
"Good", Chimezie cut in. "Chuby shall go for the 
    first exhibition".
"He'll need a cover policemen. Eze's people 
    won't know him. but if Odiari's guys are there, they may 
    spot him and that may be trouble. Two policemen in mufty with a gun 
    hidden somewhere will be enough to check them".
Chuby thought about the protection of the gun. "Good idea 
    Defo", he said.
"Very good'. Chimezie said.
When they had discussed other important details Chimezie 
    suggested that they caught some sleep since it was near midnight. 
    They all rose and bid each other goodnight and left for their 
    respective rooms to ponder and to sleep over the impending 
    events.
"I said don't ever see my face until you've 
    carried out those assignments". Odiari barked at his two 
    hitmen. They stared back at him, making no effort to move, even if 
    they had moved out of his presence it was unlikely that they would 
    carry out his orders. For the first time since they came into his 
    service, they were challenging his orders and judgment.
It was the one called Peter who finally broke the silence. 
    "Will this be our last job? The very last? We have your last 
    promise in our hearts and we already made arrangements to enjoy our 
    retirement".
Odiari was galled by this new audacity, for never before had 
    these two men dallied to execute his orders. They were actually 
    giving him conditions now. Odiari had been annoyed with them for on 
    the day that he saw the article in the Champion, 
    he had first rushed to their flat and told them to immediately 
    track Elesi down, but they had conspired and had forced him to go 
    to talk to Eze first.
Odiari had promised them retirement after the last job they did 
    for him, so that younger men in the organisation would take up the 
    exacting task of hitmen while they concerned themselves with 
    aspects of his businesses according as their specific interests 
    dictated, until they gained enough to set up on their own. But 
    could they not have seen that the organisation was in a crisis that 
    only the sturdiest of them could handle?
Odian prized discipline in the organisalion. Whether he was in 
    breach of his promise or not, obedience was the first rule; the 
    leader of the organisation being the absolute source of orders. The 
    punsihment for disobedience was reduction. Odiari felt a desire to 
    pull his revolver and make mincemeat out of these stupid traitors. 
    It would have sublime relish. He knew they were unarmed as Sebo had 
    been under instruction to whisk anybody that came to see him since 
    this problem started.
The fact was, Odiari needed these men now. Pressure was on from 
    the press and police, only the hardest of his men could be relied 
    upon. These men had been tested over time and proved by all 
    standards the sturdiest of the bunch. Each in his different way had 
    never bungled a job. Together they were predictable dynamite. They 
    performed excellently because they were great optimists. Odiari 
    repented of the murderous feeling routed in his mind. He even 
    called to mind the warning of his friend Ovie Sola, who operated 
    from Benin City. Ovie had said that "a man who rides the back 
    of hungry lion should be very careful".
"This is no job for amateurs." he suddenly said. It is 
    kind of special and needs talent". Whenever he said a job was 
    special, it was implied there was special gratification in it.
"You've been my most trusted friends ... see just as 
    we all planned for retirement, this ugly situation reared its head 
    to destroy a life long work". He talked in a floundering 
    manner. His words were the song of the drowning. "I have known 
    suffering. I have known hardship more than any of you. In that 
    I've also learnt that I am a man. Yes. I am the architect of 
    my destiny. A man is a great thing. It is he who takes a god to the 
    market place. Even the Ark of the covenant did not walk into the 
    battlefield. Men carried it. My friends, rats do not despoil a man 
    who is wide awake. Gods do not exert their influence beyond lands 
    where they have control. I am the hand of the gods, their schemer. 
    They need me as much as I need them, therefore I am free, free to 
    defend myself and to dispense justice as I deem fit. We are the 
    very gods who kill a man the day his life is sweetest to him. We 
    are wisdom unknown." He was staring ahead trance-like as words 
    poured out of his mouth. His audience listened as though under a 
    hypnotic spell.
"You cannot forget the goddess. You are still under my 
    covenant. Strength is the suppression of fear because fear makes 
    men mess their lives. Men...you are afraid. Admit it. Admit your 
    faithlessness. You fear for the consequences of your 
    actions".
"We are never afraid. We are not afraid now". It was 
    Paul from an exhausted and tortured spirit. "We will do your 
    job... this once".
"Go now. It is your last job and you will have a refilling 
    reward". The two men agreed and left. They were determined to 
    get the job done with immediately. Tonight.


