"You must be out of your mind!" Sade shouted at her 
    friend in disbelief.
It was some weeks after her first affair with Leemy when Agnes 
    told Sade that she was getting married to Dr Leemy Bello. By now, 
    her pregnancy was getting much pronounced, with the early morning 
    sickness becoming repetitive and very nauseating for her. She had 
    tactically allowed about two weeks to elapse after her last visit 
    to Leemy before breaking the news of the pregnancy to the young 
    doctor. She had craftily suggested an abortion just to know the 
    doctor's reaction to this. Leemy who had been overjoyed at the 
    news of the pregnancy, quickly rejected the idea of an abortion. He 
    was particularly happy because he had achieved what he thought 
    impossible and with an additional bonus of a forthcoming baby, he 
    was almost beside himself with joy. He had therefore quickly 
    proposed to Agnes who gave her consent after some 
    'hesitation'.
"I will travel home immediately to inform my mother," 
    Leemy had said moments later.
He knew his mother would be proud of him for such a nice catch 
    just a few weeks after chiding him for not having a girlfriend. 
    Now, as Agnes tried to flatten her abdomen to allow the 
    Nurses' uniform to fit her, Sade stood glaring at her.
"I knew something was going wrong with you the moment you 
    started behaving strangely...are you actually serious that you want 
    to make that hideous-looking man your husband?" she asked 
    dumbfounded.
"Please Sade, don't use such degrading terms to 
    describe my future husband," Agnes said in mock annoyance. 
    Sade broke into a fit of laughter.
"Mrs. Lamidi Bello!" she hissed. "Agnes, 
    I'm sure you're joking or has the man given you some love 
    potion to drink?"
After a few seconds silence, Agnes went up to her friend and 
    placed a hand on her shoulder.
"Sade, do you notice any change in me of recent?" Sade 
    silently looked her friend up and down, frowned and shook her 
    head.
"You call yourself a nurse and you can't even detect a 
    pregnant woman?" Agnes remarked.
"You're what?...Oh, all those early morning trips to 
    the toilet. It never occurred to me," Sade cried as she moved 
    closer to her girlfriend for a proper examination.
"My God, you really are pregnant! But... but, is it 
    Lamidi's baby?" she asked.
"Please call him Leemy, not Lamidi," Agnes replied.
"Okay whose baby is it?" Sade asked looking 
    suspicious.
"It's Leemy's, of course."
"But that's impossible ... I mean it can't be. I 
    understand he can't do anything ... he's said to be 
    impotent."
Suddenly, Agnes' countenance hardened up and she turned 
    sharply to her friend.
"How did you know about that?"
"So you mean you didn't know? It's all over the 
    hospital," Sade replied tersely.
"That's not correct. It's not correct!" was 
    all Agnes could say before she burst into tears.
Hot tears poured out of her eyes and she covered her face with 
    her nurses' cap sobbing convulsively for about two minutes.
Sade was alarmed at this for she had always thought Agnes to be 
    so tough that nothing could make her cry.
"My God Agnes I'm really sorry. I never meant to be 
    rude or upset you. I was only telling you what people have been 
    saying," Sade said as she moved to his friend's side. 
    "I never knew you were serious. I'm sorry if I made you 
    sad."
"Oh Sade. I'm such a fool. I've made a mess of 
    myself," Agnes said between sobs.
"There is no mess. If you love him and it's his baby 
    then you haven't done anything wrong," Sade said trying 
    to soothe her depressed friend.
After a while, Agnes dried her tears.
"Sade, please promise me you'll keep this strictly 
    between the two of us."
Sade nodded.
"A.. .Actually, it's not Leemy's baby."
"What!" Sade cried. "Then, why do you want to 
    marry him? Who is the baby's father?"
"I... I don't really know," Agnes said bursting 
    into fresh tears.
This time, Sade allowed her to cry for a while. She 
    couldn't understand what had come over her friend. Agnes went 
    on crying for a few more minutes before she finally controlled 
    herself and dried her tears. Then, she told her friend 
    everything.
"But you think he won't know the truth later?" 
    Sade asked afterwards.
"No. There is no way he can know. It's only about two 
    months difference."
Sade thought over this for a while.
"Supposing it's that white musician's baby?" 
    she asked.
"I hope not. He told me he was using some preventive 
    tablets and I believed him so I didn't use anything myself. I 
    just pray the tablets were genuine and that it's not his 
    baby" she said, her eyes moist with the beginning of another 
    flood of tears.
Sade was quiet for a while, thinking. She couldn't remember 
    ever knowing any birth control pills for men.
"But why didn't you think of abortion?"
"My doctor advised against it. You know how I almost died 
    when I had the last one?"
Sade nodded in agreement as she remembered how her friend had 
    spent an extra two months in the hospital after her last 
    abortion.
Suddenly, she too became overwhelmed by the whole situation and 
    burst into tears. She clasped her friend's hand and said 
    between sobs.
"I... I don't know what to say. It doesn't look 
    right... but... but in the present circumstances. I don't know 
    of any other solution."
The two friends clung to each other for a while.
"When is the wedding coming up?" Sade asked when the 
    two girls had fully composed themselves.
"That's pretty near, isn't it?"
"Yes. I understand our results will be out in two 
    weeks' time. By that time, the invitation cards would have 
    been out. I'm sure that with the announcement of my wedding, 
    the Matron should give me my certificate, and since Dr Bello is a 
    senior member of staff in the hospital, I should automatically be 
    employed to work here."
There was a few seconds of silence before Agnes spoke.
"Sade?" she said.
"Yes?"
"Please promise that all I told you about the pregnancy 
    will be kept secret."
"I promise. You can always trust me with such 
    things."
"Thanks, Sade. You don't know how relieved I feel 
    after telling you everything. I hope you don't mind being my 
    Chief bridesmaid."
"Is that so? That's very nice of you. Thanks for the 
    offer," Sade said suddenly feeling ecstatic about the 
    possibility of a wedding ceremony. She suddenly felt happier.
"Come, Agnes we have to hurry to get to the ward. We shall 
    discuss more about the preparations for the wedding."
The two girls quickly got dressed and walked to their respective 
    wards for the day's duties.
It was later that night that Leemy broke the news to his Friend 
    Jimi Gomez. He had been busy throughout that day as it was the 
    operation day in the department of surgery. The young man had 
    arrived in the theatre in a cheerful mood greeting everybody he 
    came across, from the patients to the porters. Twice during an 
    operation, while assisting Dr Boniface, his mind had wandered away. 
    He could see Agnes, radiant in her wedding dress while he too was 
    looking smart in his new suit. As the photographer's camera 
    flashed, he remembered to smile...
"Bello! What's come over you? I told you to cut, 
    instead you just stand there grinning," the voice of his 
    consultant jolted him back to reality.
"Sorry sir. I didn't hear you."
"Or have you won a lottery, or something? You've had 
    that stupid grin plastered on your face since morning," the 
    surgeon added.
Leemy, who was not sure how Dr Boniface would take the news of 
    his impending wedding to one of the consultant's girlfriends 
    only smiled and kept his eyes on the operation table. Twice after 
    that, he had accidentally dropped two surgical instruments on the 
    floor much to the annoyance of Dr Boniface who muttered something 
    about the evil effect of liquor on a doctor's concentration 
    ability. The surgeon later remembered to advise the young doctor 
    about sleeping well the night before the operation day. As soon as 
    he finished his job in the ward, Leemy hurried to seek out his 
    friend. He did not mind that he was limping as he hurriedly walked 
    to the doctors' quarters.
"Hello Leemy. Anything the matter?" Jimi asked as his 
    friend burst into his flat where he was having supper.
"Sorry, boy for crashing in like this," Leemy said 
    trembling with excitement. "I'm ... getting 
    married."
"What? Marriage? To whom?" Jimi asked in alarm.
"Agnes, of course."
Jimi thought his friend must have been drinking. Though he was 
    happy that Leemy was now getting on fine with Agnes, he never 
    thought things would go this far. Leemy was however not yet 
    finished with his message. His face was radiant.
"She's pregnant. I mean . . . she's carrying my 
    baby," he added breathlessly.
Suddenly Jimi knew something was wrong. Agnes was not the kind 
    of girl to get pregnant . . . unless, may be she had no choice. 
    Again, the haste with which she had allowed Leemy to take her to 
    bed was baffling. In fact, from Leemy's account of what 
    happened, it was as if Agnes actually raped the boy on the first 
    occasion.
"Jimi, Jimi, you can't even congratulate me," 
    Leemy suddenly said, jolting his friend out of his thoughts.
"How old is the pregnancy?" Jimi asked instead of 
    congratulating his friend.
"Just a month old. Why do you ask?"
Jimi now found it difficult to meet his friend's eyes. He 
    coughed nervously before saying,
"Leemy, I'm ... I'm not doubting you but, are you 
    really sure of what is happening?"
"Sure of what ... of Agnes or the fact that we are going to 
    get married?" Leemy asked, the annoyance visible on his 
    face.
"Both. Somehow, I don't really think everything is 
    going on right... I... I... mean Agnes is not the type of girl to 
    rush into marriage like this. Maybe we should talk this over before 
    you go ahead. Somehow, I think there is something fishy about the 
    whole thing."
Leemy did not reply. He only turned his back on his friend.
"You were the last person I thought would try to hurt me. 
    Are you trying to say that I'm not worthy of the 
    girl?"
Leemy's utterance baffled Jimi who quickly got up and went 
    up to his friend.
"Not at all Leemy. It's just that the girl has other 
    boy-friends. How do you know the baby is yours? Especially since 
    you can't..." Jimi couldn't finish the sentence as 
    his voice trailed off.
Leemy faced his friend, his face screwed up in a seething 
    rage.
"Go on ... finish up! What did you want to say ... that I 
    can't do anything? That I'm impotent?"
He was now screaming and sweating profusely.
"Go on say it. I knew you were jealous. Jealous of the fact 
    that a cripple could get such a beautiful girl. Jealous of 
    my..."
Suddenly he stopped and broke into tears as he collapsed into 
    the cushion chair.
Jimi allowed him to sob for a while before moving near him. He 
    held his friend by the shoulder.
"I'm sorry Leemy. I never meant to hurt you. I never 
    said you're impotent. What I wanted to say is that you 
    can't prove that the pregnancy is yours."
After a while, Leemy stopped sobbing. At that moment, Jimi did 
    not consider it appropriate to press him for more details about the 
    pregnancy.
"Come, Leemy. Accept my hearty congratulations. I wish you 
    the best of luck?"
"Jimi?"
"Yes."
"Will you be my best man?"
"Of course. I'll love to do it. Where will the wedding 
    take place?"
"At the University's chapel in a month's 
    time," Leemy replied, his countenance now brighter.
The news of the impending wedding soon spread all over the 
    hospital with the quickness of a forest fire during the dry season. 
    Everywhere it went, it generated the same reaction - spontaneous 
    disbelief. In the nurses' hostel, most of the girls knew Agnes 
    was too glamorous to go and marry such a drab-looking doctor like 
    Dr Bello. Most of the girls therefore suspected something fishy in 
    the arrangement but couldn't lay their hands on what it was. 
    As for the medical students, news quickly got to them that Agnes 
    was only pushing an unwanted pregnancy to the doctor. The source of 
    this fact was Larry Okon, who had earlier rejected the disputed 
    pregnancy. Gradually, this piece of news floated to the ears of 
    Leemy's friends who quickly called and advised against the 
    wedding. Leemy's mind was however made up and he only thought 
    his friends were envious of his success at getting the hand of a 
    beautiful girl in marriage. He was also of the opinion that his 
    friends had all along, probably thought he was impotent. Thus, 
    instead of changing his mind about the pregnancy, he became more 
    determined to go ahead with the wedding.
After his previous experience with Leemy, Jimi did not try to 
    discourage his friend again. He knew Leemy was already irredeemably 
    caught in Agnes' webs.
"Congratulations Doc. I know that with your brains, you 
    deserve only the best of everything," Dr Boniface had told 
    Leemy on receiving the invitation card for the wedding. The surgeon 
    was actually secretly annoyed that such an ugly 'bed bug' 
    could have managed to impregnate a beautiful girl like Agnes. It 
    made him all the more unhappy that his chain of beautiful 
    girlfriends was reduced by one. At any rate, Dr Boniface still 
    accepted to be the chairman at the wedding reception.
Leemy travelled home to llorin on a weekend to tell his mother 
    and relations about the impending big event. His mother was happy 
    on hearing the news and quickly informed her relations and friends. 
    Her joy was not even dampened when she learnt that Agnes, an Ibo 
    girl, was not from their own Igbira tribe. And when she learnt that 
    the girl was already pregnant, her joy knew no bounds as the 
    thought of being a grandmother overwhelmed her.
When Agnes gave Leemy the list of the items to be bought for the 
    wedding including the cash gifts to her relatives as bride price, 
    he almost collapsed.
"This is nothing. You should consider yourself lucky," 
    Agnes replied. "If not for the fact that my parents have been 
    living in Lagos for a long time, we would have had to go to our 
    village for the wedding. Then, you'd have paid through the 
    nose."
So, Dr Bello was forced to raise loans from friends within and 
    outside the hospital to the tune of five thousand naira for the 
    wedding ceremony. Some of his consultants, including Dr Boniface, 
    also lent him some money. About a week to the wedding, the 
    nurses' examination results were released and Agnes passed, 
    much to the surprise of her friends.
And, in view of her impending wedding, she was given employment 
    in the hospital as a staff nurse in the paediatrics ward. She was 
    very happy because this was what she had always prayed for.

