Threshold of Madness
GOT BOTH OF YOU AT LAST!' shouted the madman. He was 
    frothing in the mouth like a benign cow on its way to the slaughter 
    slab. His massive pair of lips could hardly cover a set of uneven 
    greenish-yellow teeth that could not have been employed for 
    masticating any type of chewing-stick for the last few weeks. His 
    hair and the grains of sand embedded in them had coagulated with 
    the active aid of his sweat, grease, grime and sand into tiny 
    pebbles that made an unsuspecting onlooker to see what looked like 
    a head of unwashed gravel. He had on an embroidered light blue 
    brocade danshiki that had completed the process 
    of transformation into dark brown around the shoulder blades. The 
    armpit area of the unfortunate apparel was already blackened by 
    layers of dead skin from beneath, and grimy fingers, in their 
    unending battle with parasites that inevitably lurk under unwashed 
    and disease riddled skin. His trousers, which did not quite match 
    the top, were torn in several places, barely hiding his male pride. 
    As if to convince the world that he was truly mad, he wore 
    flip-flop on his left foot and a battered trainer on the other one. 
    In his hand, was a large butcher's knife with which he held 
    his victims captive. Both women, who incidentally were sisters, 
    held each other tightly in downright horror almost certain that 
    they had just a few seconds to say their last prayers.
'Begin to run now.' continued the madman. 'You 
    think you have escaped your punishment? Can a chicken escape the 
    claws of a hungry kite?'
'Please calm down my darling,' Adunni managed to say. 
    'My beloved son, descendant of Adigun, the conqueror of seven 
    towns, the brave....'
'Sharrap! Don't mess with me.' 
    responded the madman. 'What has all these nonsense got to do 
    with me? Give me first my breakfast, lunch and dinner money for the 
    past two weeks? Then you can darling me as much as you 
    like.'
'My darling...'
'Don't darling me. Pay up first,' was his 
    guttural response as he launched again at the petrified women. 
    'You turned me into the monster that is standing before you 
    and you shouldn't shy away from meeting the costs.' He 
    seemed to change his mind at the last minute and scratched the road 
    surface with his unwholesome blade, which in turn produced a 
    thousand sparks. Both women quickly opened their handbags and 
    handed over to him all the cash they had between them. The madman 
    could hardly suppress an insane grin. 'God has saved you 
    today.' The relief on his face was palpable, as his knife 
    became lowered and was no longer pointing at the sisters. This was 
    the opening Adunni seized without thinking:
'Oh my darling, Jibowu Akanbi, my son. the one that paid my 
    dowry, please come home with us.' Adunni was about to embrace 
    her son. unmindful of the filth, stench and danger.
"Touch me and you are a dead woman!' barked Jibowu, 
    who suddenly realized that any sign of capitulation on his part 
    might be perceived as a sign of weakness by the demons he had been 
    playing host to for the past few years. He had just enough money to 
    keep him supplied with crack cocaine for a couple of days. The mere 
    thought of what he could achieve, the height of excitement he could 
    attain, the sheer bliss ahead made his spirit to soar. He was blind 
    to the crowd that began to accumulate like dirty flood water at a 
    roadjunction. Adunni had stopped thinking of how to persuade her 
    only son to follow her back home. She had tried many places and 
    spent all she had to find a cure for her son's dangerous 
    addiction.
Native doctors, itinerant alfas and commercial prophets, all 
    agreed with one voice that it was the handiwork of her detractors. 
    'People who are jealous of the youth's rising profile are 
    at the bottom of your son's predicament,' one of them 
    told her. She had spent a fortune on ritual sacrifice and charms to 
    help restore her son to normalcy, but it seemed she hadn't met 
    a good medicine man or a competent alfa yet.
As her mind wandered to the joy her son's condition would 
    bring to the heart of her imaginary enemies, hot tears began to 
    cascade in torrents down her sagging cheeks. Her spirit cursed them 
    and wished them a thousand misfortunes, worse than what had 
    befallen her son. They were not expected to die well... Leprosy and 
    a thousand horrible diseases were her wishes for them. Like a burst 
    dam, she began to rain expletives on her real and imagined enemies, 
    pointing to the trees and punching the air between her and the 
    increasing crowd of spectators.
The person that did this to her would never encounter good 
    luck... People who just arrived at the scene could not reconcile 
    the calmness of a smiling madman with the agitation and tantrum of 
    an expensively dressed woman shouting and screaming at no one in 
    particular, as if she had just swapped minds with the silly looking 
    and dirty young man.
More people continued to arrive like vultures and hawks hoping 
    to catch rodents fleeing from a harmattan conflagration. Jobless 
    men, idle housewives, truant school children, all stopped by for a 
    glimpse of the unusual spectacle.
'Has she gone mad too?' asked Khadijat, a roving bean 
    cake hawker, on tip toe, almost tripping her wares which were 
    skilfully balanced on her head in a glass display box.
'Why doesn't she give him her purse instead of 
    endangering her life?' asked another newcomer to the scene, 
    who thought he was witnessing a case of mugging.
'It looks like a domestic matter between husband and wife 
    o,' said a spectator who was trying to make sense of the scene 
    that has interested so many idle people.
'Ah ha, stupid! Can't you see that 
    the boy is the woman's son?' responded another voice in 
    apparent irritation.
That's what you should have said, old man. You don't 
    have to call me stupid, not with such a wretched mouth.' Some 
    of the people that heard the counter response giggled lightly as 
    they assessed the mouth of the abusive old man. Truly, no one could 
    have described the mouth more scientifically.
'Next time, I will call you an imbecile.'
'Yeah, I will not agree if I were you! This papa is simply 
    wicked,' encouraged more onlookers, obviously experienced in 
    fanning the embers of trouble. This further incensed the younger 
    man who decided to give it back to the old manure fire for 
    fire.
'Old man, respect your scanty grey hair and toothless 
    gum...'
'Oh, this is too much, Papa; the young man has killed you 
    completely! You must not allow him to get away with it,' the 
    trouble-shooters egged on the insulted old man.
'... One of these days, somebody will whack you into good 
    behaviour,' the young man concluded his sentence.
'You see what I mean... Can anyone distinguish between this 
    fool and the madman over there?' Most of the crowd found the 
    old man's remarks quite amusing and they laughed uproariously. 
    The young man, who was not one to allow an insult of that magnitude 
    to pass without an appropriate response, rose to the challenge. 
    Realising that this was going to be a more interesting encounter 
    than the one between the mother and her mad son, the crowd quickly 
    formed a jagged circle around the new adversaries.
'Old man, I've given you enough warning... I can see 
    why you lost so many teeth.'
'You are a useless boy.'
'Poverty stricken old man.'
'Neer-do-well.'
Toothless bulldog.'
'Ugly Rottweiller.'
'You are a beast of no nation.'
'And you, a monkey in the town centre.'
'A bloody nincompoop.'
'Useless vagabond.'
Hot saliva accompanying each expletive flew as far as the nearer 
    spectators who were too absorbed in the prevailing monstrosity to 
    notice or mind. Fingers were pointed and directed like poisonous 
    arrows aimed at burning eyes. White teeth and red gums were exposed 
    like male dogs fighting for supremacy at mating time. The much 
    needed tie break came when the young man called the old man 'a 
    wrinkly old chimpanzee.' The old man was so angry that he 
    pulled down his trousers and pointed his exposed bottom towards the 
    young man. The smoothness of the exposed behind completely belied 
    the deep lines of hardship carved by decades of deprivation and 
    want on the old man's face.
'Can you see any wrinkle?' asked the old man.
'No,' was the unanimous answer from the ecstatic 
    crowd.
'Can you see any craw-craw?' The old man asked another 
    question for greater effect. Most people in the crowd wondered what 
    craw-craw had to do with the encounter.
'No,' was their deafening answer.
'If you see his bum, there is craw-craw there." This 
    time the old man accompanied his declaration with an obscene 
    cackle.'
Adunni's eyes were dried by the sunny reflection from the 
    old man's incredibly shameless act. It was a comic diversion 
    from the tragedy of her son. If only I could be that modest, 
    thought Adunni in spite of the sorrow that held her captive. She 
    considered briefly, the impossibility of swapping her wobbly behind 
    with the old man's firmness before her eyes settled once again 
    on the foolish grin wandering around her son's lips.
Who would believe that this accident of humanity used to be an 
    undergraduate in one of the world's best universities? No 
    amount of money was spared to provide him with a sound education 
    and to make him comfortable in the foreign country. He spent most 
    of his adolescent in England and came home only on holidays.
Adunni and Kadiri, her husband, promised themselves that their 
    only son would tread triumphant on the grounds they were not 
    privileged to step upon, rub shoulders with the sons of the high 
    and mighty and attain the peak of academic excellence before 
    returning home with honour and pride to the Kadiri family.
While in England, Jibowu spent more time hanging out with 
    transient friends in London's red light districts. He was more 
    determined to be one of the boys than anything else. Pleasing his 
    friends and meeting their expectations of him were uppermost in his 
    priorities. He learnt to match them in potent spirits and smokes. 
    He started with mere cigarettes, then, he learnt to lace it with a 
    little hashish and finally a little crack cocaine now and again. He 
    learnt fast and soon acquired the perverse taste for hard drugs.
On the day his course mates at the South Bank University 
    graduated into independence and self-actualisation, he was still 
    wallowing in the bondage of drugs. He had become enslaved to it and 
    all his allowances and school fees, which his parents struggled to 
    send from far away West Africa, went up in smoke or flowed down the 
    urinary of London public houses.
As he needed extra money to pay for his expensive addiction, his 
    friends introduced him to drug dealing, but the Metropolitan Police 
    were not too pleased with such business.
He was so good at it that he hadn't been in it for more 
    than a few months before they arrested him, charged and secured a 
    conviction against him earning him a deserved place in a British 
    prison.
At last, he was deported back home after completing his term. 
    The Kadiri family had never experienced anything more embarrassing. 
    Mr Kadiri became totally crestfallen and almost died of shame from 
    the consequence of the disrepute brought upon the family name by 
    his son.
After serving his term, the British authorities withdrew 
    Jibowu's residency permit and deported him to his country of 
    origin. Back home in disgrace, his family rallied around him 
    nonetheless and tried to give him as much support as they could 
    muster. They soon discovered after a couple of weeks that the 
    bright boy that had been sent off to England a few years back had 
    grown into an uncontrollable monster who was better left to his own 
    devices. His physical appearance was almost always slovenly, his 
    breath was forbidden and his behaviour was utterly appalling. He 
    quickly overdrew his filial goodwill, completely wiping out all 
    compassion from his relatives. Family members stopped allowing him 
    into their premises as their personal effects frequently developed 
    legs and vanished into the thin air.
Ultimately, cocaine became his sole friend, he trusted it 
    religiously and depended on it absolutely. Together, they descended 
    the steep stairs of mental deraiIment and ventured into the 
    subterranean depth of human degradation and poverty. So fast was 
    his descent that he reached the nadir of human existence in record 
    time. The destitute who slept rough under overhead bridges and car 
    parks in the city centre became his companions. They in turn 
    reciprocated their profound appreciation of his distinguished 
    company by calling him Jibs-Londoner.
The living condition at the car park was such that it was 
    impossible not to be thoroughly filthy. It was convenient 
    nonetheless, as destitute didn't pay rent, electricity bills, 
    taxes or water rates. The society looked down on them as insane and 
    they in turn smelt and acted as such. As a true ambassador of this 
    class of citizens, Jibs-Londoner frequently put on the cloak of 
    madness to generate some of the huge amount of money needed to fund 
    his expensive habit and those of other car park dwellers. His 
    co-travellers encouraged him to explore the vast potential provided 
    by his family and their friends who can be relied upon not to press 
    charges if they were ruffled a little or stripped of a little cash 
    now and again.
'Death is more tolerable than dishonour,' was the wise 
    saying that echoed repeatedly in Adunni's sensibility as she 
    studied her smelly son.
