Doors
Fingers of smoke infiltrated the room. The smoke entered through 
    the worm-eaten walls, creeping stealthily about like phantom spies, 
    hovering aimlessly in the air around the naked bulb, ghosts turned 
    back from wherever ghosts go. A rat scuttled on tiny legs across 
    the cracked floor to disappear into a dark corner the feeble light 
    could not penetrate.
The single bed on which Taju slept was dimly lit. It creaked 
    loudly with his every stir. The young man's face worked 
    restlessly. As usual, he muttered in his sleep. His close-cropped 
    hair crawled with sweat. The sweat paths crisscrossed and became 
    one with the images clashing in his disturbing dream. One was of 
    the X sign of imminent demolition scrawled on his workshop by the 
    Local Government officials, the scourge of illegal structures. The 
    other dream was of money. In his sleep, Taju could see only blazing 
    red Xs as he choked to a slow death in an ocean of rotten 
    currency.
He tossed. A frail ship rocked by stormy hostile waves. Taju 
    tossed, a sweat-stained pillow resting between his parted legs like 
    the bloated phallus of a giant. The mosquitoes and bugs that had 
    made the dirty mattress home feasted on him.
Taju slapped himself into abrupt wakefulness, hurling curses at 
    the grandfather of a mosquito that had eluded him. He sat up and 
    scratched the stub beard that his wife always complained about. 
    Three long raw-looking tribal marks glowered on each cheek. The 
    streaks looked like the memories of an unforgettable encounter with 
    a wildcat. Taju fished his chewing stick out of his pocket and 
    stuck it in his mouth, bleary eyes taking in the room. Mayowa was 
    already up and about. He could see the frayed folds of her mat in 
    the corner beside the small cupboard that held her few clothes.
Up in the rafters where the decrepit cobweb-coated skeleton of 
    the house was exposed, the clean sunlight outside sliced in through 
    the leaks in the roof like laser rays reaching to cleave a throat. 
    Taju coughed mildly. The smoke that curled lazily around the room 
    tickled his nostrils. He rose to rap irritably on the weak wall 
    through which the smoke sneaked in.
"You don start again o!" he yelled.
There was no response.
Taju's strong teeth mashed the end of the chewing stick 
    bobbing in the corner of his mouth as he crossed to the window. The 
    glass had cracked in three places. He carefully pushed it open and 
    spat out the foam that had formed in his mouth. Soon, he would have 
    to head for his marked-for-demolition workshop to earn whatever 
    miserable money he could before the government's bulldozers 
    gobbled his livelihood. Right now, he was just content cleaning his 
    teeth with the bitter stick, spitting his guts onto the grassy 
    patch that was being slowly licked dry by the incoming harmattan, 
    listening to the neighbourhood reluctantly stir up to face another 
    of an endless calendar of hopeless days.
He heard Mayowa enter the room behind him, using her rapidly 
    dwindling buttocks to creak the door open. Her thin hands - rough 
    and hardened from ill-use - held a steaming plate of 
    eba. A tiny piece of meat cowed like a 
    shame-faced island in the sea of weak soup.
"Good morning," Mayowa said to her husband.
He grunted as usual in response.
She placed the food on the only chair in the room, a lopsided 
    wooden affair that had found its way into the room under obscure 
    circumstances. Mayowa pushed the chair closer to the bed.
"Your food is ready," she said, watching her husband 
    wash his brooding face with the water she had placed on the 
    cupboard while he slept. She was dark...black really, like the 
    fire-licked backside of her soup pot. The healthy glow her skin 
    once took pride in had faded. It had vanished with her past. 
    Disappeared with the nagging thoughts of defying her parents to run 
    away with her man, Taju. Mayowa loved this man who now sat before 
    her, pulling the food closer. She prayed regularly to God to make 
    the morrow better. At a score and four years, with her collarbones 
    now jutting out, making her look haggard and tired, Mayowa 
    didn't look four years younger than Taju. She seemed older, 
    liable to be broken and rudely flung asunder by unexpected wind.
However, one shy magic that lurked behind her reserved face 
    sneaked out occasionally to overshadow even the sun. Whenever it 
    did, it shrugged off the ill-fitting dust of age, the burdens of 
    the day, transforming her into a living radiance. That shy thing 
    was a smile. Just a little old smile.
"This is a different soup," Taju observed.
She said nothing. Next to being in his metalwork pumped arms, 
    this was the only other moment that meant so much to her. Watching 
    him eat. It always gave her a secret pleasure to see her labour 
    being appreciated in fistfuls.
"Where did you get money to make it?" Taju prodded 
    again between mouthfuls.
Mayowa shrugged. He knew. She sold fruits according to the 
    seasons. Often, she took it upon herself to provide the meals. 
    Especially when he was flat and out...and touchy. Like now. These 
    gestures always hurt Taju's pride, making him hard on her. Of 
    what use was a breadwinner who couldn't win a soggy mouldy 
    loaf? She wasn't going to let him starve though. Mayowa 
    understood a lot. She had married a proud man now bereft of 
    everything but the tattered shreds of that pride. Stripped of that 
    too, he might as well crawl into a quiet hole and die.
He'd paused to stare at her, a ball of 
    eba precariously balanced on the toughened tips 
    of his fingers. Soup dribbled down his hairy arm. Mayowa looked 
    into his eyes and instinctively knew she had to answer before they 
    filled with another of those irrational rage only incapacitated men 
    seemed capable of summoning at will.
"Why do you ask these questions whenever I spend my money 
    to cook for you? Do you not trust me? Or you expect me to spend my 
    money on less important things when I know my husband is a little 
    down?" She tried to stop there, but one thing more gnawed at 
    the back of her mind. "You know where I get the money from, 
    Taju. Why do you still ask? Does it matter that much?"
Taju didn't respond. For a delicate moment, he 
    couldn't. He simply held his ball of eba 
    and stared quietly at her, shame stirring restlessly in his 
    guts.
"Eat up quickly, my husband. The food will get cold and the 
    day is wasting a..."
"Who told you I didn't know that?" he snapped at 
    her, aware the cruel bark in his voice was uncalled for.
She sighed sadly and looked away, folding up in submission. That 
    one action shook up the little food in Taju's belly, urging it 
    to push its way out as it had pushed its way in. He felt disgusted 
    with himself. He'd done it again! The unsuccessful welder of 
    metal versus the orange seller! Applause please!
Taju washed his hand quickly and rose. He had to get out.
Mayowa stood up too, her eyes shooting up from the barely 
    touched breakfast.
"You didn't finish your food..."
"Eat it," he said gruffly. "I don't feel 
    hungry."
He knew it was a lie.
Tears seeped slowly into the corner of Mayowa's eyes.
"I didn't mean to offend you my husband. If you must 
    know, I sold a lot of oranges to one nursery school at Agege. 
    Isn't my money your money too?"
"Will you leave me alone!" Taju yelled at her, 
    deriving a sadistic satisfaction from the way she flinched, a silky 
    curtain struck by a sudden draught. He grabbed his shirt, slipped 
    on his much sewn rubber sandals and hurried out of the room.
Outside, Taju quickly disappeared in the time-pressed mass of 
    work-bound people. He slid past beggars who were making themselves 
    comfortable for the long day ahead. At a bus stop, he noticed the 
    authorities were yet to remove the dead and stiff and 
    starting-to-stink corpse of a prophet who'd died of hunger, 
    having refused to eat because his "god", a rock he always 
    carried around, never ate. In the gutter, the wet cover of an old 
    issue of the Weekend Concord blazed the 
    headline: NIGERIANS SAY NO TO WORLD BANK LOAN!
His anger dissipated in the yet unpolluted morning breeze.
Taju had a good woman in Mayowa. He knew that. He had known it 
    while he courted her during his apprenticeship at Ibadan. And she 
    had matured into a good woman now, two years after their elopement 
    to marry and dwell in Lagos. She was a good woman. It was with 
    himself he felt at odds. What other way was there to express your 
    own inadequacy other than lashing out at the world? And if that 
    world moved so fast and stayed leeringly out of reach, 
    wouldn't the option be to lash out blindly at the nearest 
    person?
"Mayowa," he said dully.
A suited man glanced at his troubled face...and walked a little 
    faster, throwing uneasy looks behind him.
Taju mentally cautioned himself not to think out loud 
    anymore.
"Mayowa," he said almost immediately.
Her constant companionship worked at preventing his frustrations 
    from crowding in to consume him. All his efforts were never going 
    to be adequate to make him comfortable financially...He knew the 
    times did not permit that. Whole families hung out at roadsides 
    with begging bowls, wailing...His own condition hadn't 
    deteriorated to that point. Mayowa had been feeding him, he wished 
    there was something sane he could do about it...
Hassan was waiting for him at the workshop. He was perched on 
    the warm bonnet of his Mercedes Benz car, gazing contemptuously 
    around the sparse surrounding of Taju's workplace. Peeling 
    paint on a crumbling, tipsy plank read T JU WELD NG WORKS. Beneath 
    it, a sheet of metal being gradually devoured by rust rested in the 
    timid shadow of a small wooden shed with a padlocked door. The mud 
    forge lay dead, amidst chips and bits of iron, lonely echoes of the 
    occasional cheap job.
On sighting Hassan, Taju began the first motions of a hasty 
    retreat. But his heavily bearded friend's bruisingly 
    penetrating eyes settled on him, a heavy load. Taju froze. His taut 
    lips stretched into a forced smile and reluctant legs lugged him 
    forward.
"Ah, Hassan," he called with forced geniality, 
    "it is you."
The bearded man appraised him in silence, his eyes distinctly 
    narrowed in displeasure.
The eternity of a difficult second.
"Did I just see you trying to avoid me, Taju?" he 
    asked.
A surprised look hurriedly manufactured.
"Aha!" replied Taju, "why now? Why would I want 
    to avoid my good friend?"
"Perhaps you imagine I have come to collect the ban I gave 
    you to start this miserable business."
Both of them glanced at the shed. The bleeding X left on its 
    only window by the Local Government officials glared like a fresh 
    wound. It seemed to be accusing Taju. Failure, 
    it said. Taju quickly looked away.
"I could have paid you. Hassan. Business has been 
    bad..."
''Business was never good!" Hassan barked.
His lips could not be seen. Half of his face was lost in a small 
    forest of hair. Only his tongue showed as he talked, flicking about 
    sloppily.
"Do you think people who go into business never make 
    initial connections before they set off? You expect jobs to just 
    walk off the streets into your lap? You make me laugh, Taju. Look, 
    you and I have known each other ever since our childhood days. I 
    know enough about you to be sure you don't have what it takes 
    to run a business. You'll be better working under 
    someone."
They had gone through this before.
Taju stared at the ground with contrition, like a whipped 
    dog.
"Everything could change, Taju," Hassan pursued. 
    "One little price and you will never have to work until your 
    dying day..."
"I can't do it!" Taju yelled.
He had to fling the words out of his mouth, wrench them out of a 
    pained soul.
"No, I cannot," he repeated, shuffling uncomfortably 
    on the spot like a child who needed desperately to urinate. 
    "How can I do such a thing?"
"I did!" Hassan responded.
"Yes, you did! I 
    cannot! Will not!" Taju was almost panting now.
Some passers-by looked their way. He ignored them.
"Everything.. .lost everything for me! Are you 
    inhuman?"
"Not inhuman, practical." Hassan said, staring coolly 
    at him. "You could say that's my second name now. You 
    think I am inhuman, and that is why you remain nowhere today, 
    sub-human so many months after we both left welding 
    apprenticeship."
Hassan had a night black mole between his eyes, and as he 
    talked, the mole looked reproaching...like a worm-hole about to 
    suck the world into a void.
The mole reminded Taju of the biblical pass-over 
    mark, like in the Moses movie he had gone to see with 
    Mayowa in Ibadan when they had been younger and still innocent. But 
    this mark wasn't in blood and on a door. It was black and on 
    his friend's forehead.
A rueful smile touched the corners of Taju's mouth as 
    another thought occurred to him. He has red paint on his workshop. 
    Red paint could pass for blood. His was a 
    pass-through sign. The bulldozer would soon come 
    visiting...
Hassan's mole had to be a pass-over 
    sign. The mark hadn't been on his friend's face while 
    they grew up in Ibadan. It had come about the time they settled in 
    Lagos: him, Hassan and Fadeke, his wife, and Mayowa... There were 
    only three of them left now. Fadeke had mysteriously disappeared as 
    soon as they touched Lagos...and the mole had appeared just as 
    mysteriously... Hassan's life had changed thereafter because 
    poverty had passed him by...
".. .Lagos, you thought I didn't have my reasons for 
    wanting us to come down?" Hassan was still talking.
Taju had missed most of it.
"...Or you thought it was only because of stupid dreams 
    like yours that I came down here? I came with my mind made up on 
    what I was coming to do. I had to be away from people who knew me 
    to do it, but I also had to be close to an economically viable 
    place so I could at least justify it. My fleet of luxurious buses 
    now ply the interstate route, Taju, and my other investments yield 
    good money. Why don't you stop being sentimental? Let your 
    brain talk, not your heart. You can always explain a disappearance. 
    And if the worst happens, you can disappear with the kind of money 
    you would have. I can still take you down to the..."
