Ali Must Go
May I crave the indulgence of readers to embark on a journey 
    down memory lane albeit Ahmadu Ali inglorious past. In the late 
    70s, General Olusegun Obasanjo was the Nigeria Head of State. He 
    succeeded General Murtala Mohammed who was assassinated in a bloody 
    coup led by Col. Bukar Sukar Dimka of the Nigerian Army. 
    Among those appointed into his cabinet was Ahamdu Ali, then a 
    Colonel also in the Nigerian Army. Ali was the minister of 
    education under the Obasanjo regime. In that portfolio, he played a 
    yeoman role for Obasanjo. It does appear that his masterly 
    execution of the hatchet jobs for Obasanjo in that era earned him 
    another appointment as National Chairman of the 
    Peoples Democratic Party, 
    PDP, in the Obasanjo second coming as the country civilian 
    president.
Among Ali’s responsibilities as education minister was the 
    management of the affairs of Nigerian Universities. He boggled that 
    assignment as he brazen-facedly threw the entire university 
    community into a demonstration that is unprecedented in the annals 
    of students’ unrest in Nigeria. This he accentuated by imposing 
    such unbearable difficulties on the welfare of the students. 
    Without due consultations with the various stakeholders 
     including the students who would be directly 
    affected by his policy, he unilaterally removed the meal subsidy on 
    students meal ticket. This occurred few years after the Nigeria 
    civil war when many Nigerian students were finding it difficult to 
    have three square meals a day.
The decision was greeted with public outpouring of outrage. The 
    National Union of Nigerian students, NUNS, then under the 
    leadership of Segun Okeowo of the University of Lagos as its 
    president, staged a nation-wide demonstration, calling on Ali’s 
    resignation as education minister. The students’ protest later made 
    popular the refrain'Ali mun Go.' 
    as every Nigerian composed a song out of the Ali Must Go 
    , call by the students. Rather 
    than heed the call, Ali proscribed the 
    Students’ body and 
    rusticated Okeowo, preventing him in the process from gaining 
    admission into any Nigeria University. It was Ali’s proscription of 
    NUNS that gave rise to the formation of the present National 
    Association of Nigerian Students, NANS.
Ali’s resistance to vacating office is once more being played 
    out in his avalanche of reasons to postpone indefinitely the 
    national convention of PDP. Despite denials, it is becoming clearer 
    by the day that Ali’s ulterior reason is to clink to the position of the national chairman of the 
    party till 2009. The suspicion gains more weight against the 
    background of groundswell of rumours of his rejection as ambassador 
    by many countries due to his garrison command posture. Again the 
    unrepentant activities of his hirings continue to expose Ali 
    chameleonic behaviours. Recent text messages being circulated, 
    seeking support for his continuation in office till 2009 is alleged 
    to have been sponsored by Ali and his cabal. The abridged text by 
    one Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere calls on PDP members to “support the 
    patriotic campaign for the present PDP National Working Committee 
    four years tenure completion. The tenure of the present NWC led by 
    Dr. Ahmadu Ali and Bernard Eze is still valid,” the text 
    stated. According to a story posted on Elendureports.com, 
    Ikenga was alleged to have been given N5million to begin this 
    onslaught which many believe may nail the 
    coffin of PDP if prosecuted to a successful . 
    Included in Ikenga brief, the report stated, is a court action to 
    stop the convention. Ali’s feeble defence of this hatchet action by 
    Ikenga in the Punch Newspaper interview of December 4 
    , simply lends credence to his 
    vaulting ambition. Rather that condemning Ikenga’s action, he 
    simply retorted in response to a question about Ikenga’s activities 
    that “such people are only helping us to sit tight.” Elendureports 
    further stated that Ikenga was the same person alleged to have been 
    hired by PDP to mount campaign against Patrician Etteh removal as 
    Speaker of the House of 
    representative.
Meanwhile latest bulk passing by Ali and 
    the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC 
     on whether PDP duly informed INEC about its 
    congresses and convention is rather to me diversionary antics. Both 
    PDP under Ali and INEC under Maurice Iwu are just but two sides of 
    a coin. They will always work together and they have previously 
    connived to bequeath to the nation in 2007 the worst election in 
    this country. If Ali doubts the claim, let him publish with dates 
    , the letter which he claimed to 
    have notified INEC about the party congresses. Just recently at a 
    public lecture I Jos, plateau state, 
    Iwu flew a kite of the next game plan between his commission and 
    PDP. According to him, if PDP fairs to put its house in order INEC 
    will step in to do that for the Party meaning 
    the commission may go ahead to endorse a favored executive and 
    begin to relate with it. The experiences of the All progressive 
    Grand Alliance, APGA, with Iwu INEC is still very fresh.
It is my considered opinion that this sentiment, which seems to 
    have become a type of mantra that agents of discord now bandy about 
    at the drop of a hat, does not have any merit and cannot fly as Ali 
    was a usurper of that tenure provided by the party rules. Audu Ogbe 
    was actually the person elected to serve the 
    four years tenure for 
    his zone but he spent only two years. In 
    between the line, Ali with his chief coupist, Obasanjo, truncated 
    Ogbe’s reign and foisted himself on the Party. By September 2007, 
    Ali has completed the four year tenure of his zone as his regime 
    commenced September 2005. His extra stay in office amounts to 
    denial of the right of others as he burrows into the tenure of 
    other zones which suppose to benefit from the party zoning 
    system.
Moreover, the argument does not real stand because by the party 
    current zoning arrangement, the office of the national chairman was 
    factored into the zoning formula of the party 
    particularly as the presidential election marked a watershed in the 
    life of the party. The truth is that an in-depth and unbiased 
    analysis of Ali crave for continuous hold to the national 
    chairmanship of the party does not reveal any positive 
    blue- print on how he intends 
    to infuse any glory to the Party other than his excessive love for 
    power, pecuniary benefits and other attendant accouterments.
His contributions to the party have remained typical of a leader 
    consumed by power and pride and these have rather undermined the 
    very fabric that held and still holds the party together. Ali’s 
    duplicity will always remain a topic of discussion and he will be 
    remembered as a garrison commander in politics who destroyed an 
    opportunity to advance the course of democracy in Nigeria. Let it 
    be said that PDP may be down on its luck in Nigeria temporarily, 
    yet the party is still cognizant of the kind of leadership it 
    desires to take it to the next level. But certainly not people like 
    Ali whose reign conjures and provokes images of 
    tyrant-master-leadership model as against the servant-leadership 
    disposition of the present administration. It is on record that 
    while his reign lasted, credibility gap, whims of godfathers 
    characterized by imposition of candidates dominated the policy of a 
    political party described by its members as the' 
    Peoples Democratic 
    Party' The truth is that if PDP still hopes to savage 
    anything out of its bartered image, Ali, the garrison commander 
    must go.
Sulaiman Usman, writes from 18, morocco Road, Suleja, Niger 
    State.
