False rejoicing in Yobe
SIR: Kindly permit me a space in your widely read newspaper to 
    offer an advice to Ali Sheriff, Mamman Ali and Bukar Abba Ibrahim 
    for the so-called victory lecture held at Warsala near Damaturu 
    over a judgment made by the Supreme Court in respect of the Yobe 
    State gubernatorial tussle. 
The five men-panel of the apex court presided over by Justice 
    Katsina Alu told Sen. Albishir that 
    "he put the apex court at conflict with the lower 
    Courts, as the appeal to the supreme court was made on the case 
    whose decision was yet to be taken by the lower court entertaining 
    it. Therefore, it is the opinion of the Supreme Court that Sen. Albishir should go back to the Court of Appeal Jos, and judgment 
    must have been made before the Apex Court shall entertain the 
    case.  
With the above statement issued by the highly respected Supreme 
    Court Judge, is it therefore proper that the two serving Governors 
    and a Distinguish Senator 
    of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to go ahead and deceive the 
    electorate that the Yobe Guber tussle is over, and therefore, the 
    door is open for Sen. Albishir to join and support the 
    Mamman Aliled government, otherwise if he 
    fails to do so within a shortest possible time they will continue 
    to deal with him brutally and in a barbaric way until he is 
    escorted to his grave yard? 
    
Usually, an obedient servant of God always prays for long life 
    and prosperity to his parents in order to guide him to the straight 
    path and to keep him away from wrong 
    doings. Among the above mentioned politicians, Senator 
    Mamman Ali and Senator Ali Sheriff are assumed to be the 
    beneficiaries of this age-long cherished prayer. 
In this case the pertinent question to ask is: are they at all 
    seeking their parents’ advice or are their parents at all giving 
    them proper advice? 
Finally may I use this opportunity and 
    advice Ali Sheriff and co to revisit their inhuman 
    statement and seek forgiveness from Almighty Creator and good 
    people Yobe State. 
Babashehu Musa Bulama, Maitama, Abuja.
