Decentralisation of NDDC
President Umaru Musa Yar'Adua
Office of the Executive President of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria,
Aso Rock Villa,
Asokoro District,
Abuja.
Dear Sir,
DECENTRALISATION OF NDDC
It is pathetic to note that, since the inception of the Niger 
    Delta Development Commission (NDDC), which was 
    set-up to address the deprivation and 
    marginalization needs of the people, nothing tangible has been 
    achieved. Rather we find people in corridors of power at the NDDC, 
    speaking double tongues, deceiving their brothers, meting out great 
    inhuman treatment on their own lands. The NDDC is a study case of 
    deceit, a conception of flattery, using public funds meant for the 
    development of the deprived Niger Delta, for the pursuance of their 
    selfish political ambition which is not borne out of service, but 
    out of greed. The deplorable state of the Niger Delta region was 
    justified recently by Senators of the Federal Republic of 
    Nigeria.
With reference to the Vanguard newspaper of Friday, November 2, 
    2007, concerning the report titled, "Senators want more 
    derivation revenue for Niger-Delta", was the Senate delegation 
    that went on a tour of the creeks of Bayelsa, Delta and Akwa Ibom 
    states, for the purpose of familiarizing themselves with 
    the problems of the region. The Senators divided themselves into 
    three groups to cover the three states in question, and the Bayelsa 
    state group, led by Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike 
    Ikweremadu, was close to tears, when they came face-to-face with 
    the acute poverty and poor living conditions in the communities of 
    the states. On their return to Port-Harcourt, 
    they called for an increase in the derivation allocation to the 
    Niger Delta, to reverse the existing situation. The president of 
    the Senate, Senator David Mark, who led one of the teams to Delta, 
    on his return, also promised on his part, expedited action by the 
    Senate in reversing the decay in the region. His words: "We 
    will legislate for peace in the Niger Delta, we shall provide for 
    the people through appropriation. We will not be frustrated or 
    deterred no matter the odds. We owe it to our conscience and the 
    nation. There is no going back". But before we get carried 
    with such words, let us look critically on the body that will 
    invariably, be responsible to the implementation 
    of whatever policies or appropriation the Senate will come up with, 
    that is the NDDC.
The much talked about neglect of the Niger Delta region was 
    supposed to be handled by the NDDC, established by the immediate 
    former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, in 2000, with the statutory 
    responsibility of eliminating some of the ills chocking the life of 
    the people of the Niger Delta area. Let us note 
    that, huge amounts of money running into 
    billions have been pumped into the NDDC from the time of inception 
    till date, but yet the commission has nothing to show for it. The 
    Senate's visit to the region justifies this fact. So, it will 
    be a waste, if more money is channeled into NDDC 
    without properly sorting out the problems affecting the body. Just 
    like past governments have tried to address the neglect of the 
    Niger Delta region with the establishment of OMPADEC, DFRI, PTF 
    that could not achieve much, particularly OMPADEC that failed in 
    this regard due to many factors arising from the polity. The same 
    factors have found its way into the affairs of NDDC. The NDDC has 
    become highly politicized that it is regarded as a conduit pipe for 
    siphoning public funds.
It is on record that the top management staff of the NDDC 
     who incidentally are from the Niger Delta 
    region, had governorship ambition and thus rely on public funds to 
    achieve these goals, deceiving our ignorant brothers and sisters 
    that they have marching orders to address our developmental needs. 
    We pity them because they are more ignorant than the public they 
    strive to deceive. As far as we are concerned, they are a disgrace 
    to themselves and retinue of followers. From our own estimation, 
    NDDC is a failure not because the commission and its ideals are 
    strategised to fail, but because the managers of the 
    commission's funds are wicked, mischievous, bunch of thieves 
    with no conscience, whose stock in trade is to circumvent the 
    public goals for their own private aggrandizement. This attitude 
    has left the Niger Delta region to remain perpetually stricken with 
    abject poverty.
Similarly, at the tail of Obasanjo's reign, some oil 
    producing states like Delta, also established 
    their own Development commission known as Delta State Oil Producing 
    Area Development Commission (DESOPADEC), all for the same purpose 
    enumerated above, to satisfy praise-singers, loyalists and so on. 
    The total neglect of the Niger Delta region is the basis for the 
    persistent crises that has 
    enveloped the area, as a result of aggrieved youths who have taken 
    it upon themselves to pour the aggression on a misplaced priority. 
    The crises in the Niger Delta 
    region have developed gradually to 
    the peak of criminality, where it can be compared favourably with 
    the Middle East crises. It has 
    involved the killing of innocent people, hostage taking of women, 
    children, elderly people and expatriate staff of oil companies. 
    Life has no value here, just like  the 
    Middle East, the only difference is that, the 
    youths have not started suicide bombing in their operations; the 
    place has become highly militarized with clandestine activities all 
    around. People are still going hungry in the midst of plenty and 
    yet the NDDC has continued to exist. All we have around the Niger 
    Delta are abandoned projects, in the name of NDDC, yet a selected 
    few live in affluence, drive flashy cars, with well furnished 
    offices. This has made veteran leader E.K. Clark to condemn NDDC in 
    its entirety.
Other areas identified that should be held responsible for the 
    neglect and deplorable state of the Niger Delta 
    region, are the states and local government 
    leaders, who from 1999 till date, have received 
    enormous amounts of revenue and yet nothing to show for it in their 
    respective states. The Senators' visits along the creeks of 
    the Niger Delta states, mentioned 
    earlier, said their tour around these 
    states, was an "eye opener" to the 
    criminal neglect that has left the areas in a pathetic state. They 
    blamed all past and present governors and local government chairmen 
    for not judiciously using the capital coming into the states' 
    purse. This is very true, when one considers the various reports of 
    alleged misappropriation of public funds by the state governors 
    that has given the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission 
    (EFCC), enough assignments to battle with on 
    their tables. The issue of corrupt leaders is another huge topic of 
    its own , our concern here is, what 
    has NDDC done so far to alleviate the plight of the suffering Niger 
    Deltans? The obvious answer is, practically nothing!
We are yet to understand the master plan of the Niger Delta 
    , we have been waiting anxiously for 
    meaningful developmental projects that will impact on the lives of 
    the average Niger Deltans, we have 
    looked at the conscious attempts of these people at the NDDC to 
    loot public funds and only embark on projects, 
    when they are pressured by the presidency to commission some 
    projects. It appears the persons on the board are people without 
    the intent and interest of their own people. We pass a vote of no 
    confidence on the entire management team of the NDDC.
We strongly call for a change of the NDDC methods of 
    implementing developmental policies, and we 
    believe, this call is 
    eminent, in the face of the likely consequence 
    of the polity and the economy of the country. If this is not 
    checked now, it will likely increase  wave 
    of resentments, militancy, cry of marginalization and unwanted 
    destruction of lives, properties and oil installations. It is a cry 
    for transformation in the scheme of things, to provide for the 
    welfare of Niger Delta people, to stop the media hype over the 
    perceived success of the NDDC in the face of failure, and to 
    protect the continued interest of our dear country.
THE WAY FORWARD
Those at the helms of NDDC have not answered the real questions 
    of development in the Niger Delta region, or better still, have no 
    answers to it , hence, most of the 
    contracts they delve into are not peopleoriented. They neglect the real core issues that are supposed to 
    be taken care of, and go on with projects that are meant for the 
    local government councils . Projects 
    like painting of schools, erecting 
    schools fences, patching of 
    roads, boreholes, etc. We see this as a displacement of priorities, 
    therefore, we profer the following:
NDDC must be decentralized, to be established 
    in all oil and gas producing states, and the structure of the 
    board, would consist of a Chief Executive / 
    Managing Director, who will be reporting directly to the Presidency 
    on every activities concerning the 
    development of that state. The budget and allocations coming into 
    each state must be according to the oil and gas production revenue 
    accrued by such a state. Those that will make-up 
    the board in each state must be people that are honest with a 
    longstanding repertoire of proven integrity, with a 
    sincere passion to develop the Niger Delta area. Appointments 
    should not be based on sweet talking orators, 
    with exaggerated profiles.
.NDDC in each of the oil producing states 
    should have equal powers to dispense their duties. However, their 
    funding will be different, based on the quota each state can 
    generate. The projects and programmes embarked upon must be people 
    oriented projects that would be of immense benefits to the general 
    people  not a selected few. The projects so 
    far executed, have been concentrated in villages 
    of top men, Directors and politicians.
To checkmate this, the projects of these 
    states NDDC should be 
    monitored by credible third parties, individuals or organizations 
    that have no government or political affiliation, who are 
    independent and whose views can be relied on as unbiased. This will 
    ensure that projects are properly executed, and it will be what the 
    people actually need.
The Senators of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, having had for 
    themselves, an eye opening encounter with the 
    heart melting, nothing to write home about, deplorable state of the 
    Niger Delta region, should not encourage the continued existence of 
    NDDC (as the body with the sole responsibility of eliminating the 
    distress of the people). NDDC has not been able to justify the 
    billions of Naira that has been pumped into it for close to seven 
    (7) years now. Hence, we urge for the decentralization of the body 
    to allow a closer encounter from the state level with the 
    grassroots, where the problems are eminent.
Zik Gbemre
National Coordinator
