Truth emerging on PTDF looting
SIR: Recently, in the course of the appropriation bill defences 
    and exercises at the National Assembly, the Executive Secretary of 
    Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), Alhaji Kabir 
    Mohammed, alleged that former President Olusegun Obasanjo 
    misapplied the PTDF resources.
In his words before the lawmakers, the Executive Secretary said 
    "We don’t collect the Signature Bonus directly. It is usually 
    collected by the DPR which sells the (oil) blocs and PTDF does not 
    control that account. The PTDF does not even know what goes into or 
    comes out of that account". According to Alhaji Kabir 
    Mohammed, President Obasanjo as Petroleum Minister then was in 
    charge of petroleum funds.
Nigerians and the international community would recall to a 
    great extent the over-heated nature of our polity while President 
    Obasanjo and Vice-President Atiku Abubakar were in the last lap of 
    their second tenure in office in 2007. The matter bordered on the 
    misuse and abuse of the resources of PTDF. Obasanjo and Abubakar 
    took turns accusing each other and stating their individual cases. 
    It was a tough period for the nation and her people. The business 
    of government came to a standstill. The country and her people 
    suffered. The courts were besieged and some individuals were 
    victimised.
The Senate was disturbed and partitioned along Atiku supporters 
    and Obasanjo’s foot soldiers. The Presidency was divided and 
    service to the Nigerian people was sacrificed on the 
    alter of political expediency and 
    blackmail. The Nigerian people will never forget in haste the 
    flagrant abuse of due process that became the order of the day in 
    Obasanjo’s last days in office. So now that both Obasanjo and Atiku 
    are out of office; it is easier and 
    better for us to know the truth of what happened to the PTDF money. 
    Objectivity will be possible now beyond the rhetoric and lies of 
    Maina Waziri and the chicanery of Victor Ndoma-Egba and his Ad-hoc 
    committee in the then Senate. Let there be further investigations 
    into the matter so that the looting that took place in the 
    Nigeria’s oil sector can be properly exposed.
Billy Onoja,
Dept of Political Science, University of Jos.
