Our dream Nigeria – The Challenges
It's good to believe that we all have some kinds of dreams 
    for Nigeria. Never mind those sleepers who believe that Nigeria 
    will never be better. Every developed country you see today passed 
    through developmental torments and torrents. They did not just wake 
    up and stepped into development and maturity. Europe and America 
    were once worst than Nigeria is 
    today. One day, Nigeria will become fully developed. After all, we 
    are developing.
Having said this, I now ask, what is our dream Nigeria? We have 
    different views of our dream Nigeria but good enough, all the views 
    form a pyramid pointing to one spot even though the base spreads 
    wide –We all want the best Nigeria 
    that can be – a developed Nigeria. Some say their dream Nigeria is 
    a Nigeria where corruption will be no more. Some say it is a 
    Nigeria where security of lives and property will be secured. Some 
    say it is a Nigeria where the roads will be wide and smooth. Some 
    say it is a Nigeria where the leaders will be more responsible, 
    responsive and conscientious. Some say it is a Nigeria where 
    employment will be provided and poverty eradicated. Some say it is 
    a Nigeria where schools will be equipped and modern libraries 
    created.
Some say it is a Nigeria where electricity will never 
    seize to light. Some say it is a 
    Nigeria where markets will be constructed to reflect that traders 
    are human beings and not pigs. Some say it a Nigeria where the 
    streets will be clean and lighted. Some say it is a Nigeria where 
    recreational parks will be created and enabled. Some say it is a 
    Nigeria where hospitals will be equipped and the doctors and nurses 
    better trained. Some say it is a Nigeria where sick people would be 
    picked by equipped ambulances and more lives saved. Some say it is 
    a Nigeria where people will attend driving schools before driving 
    and the roads made safer.
Some say it is a Nigeria where food can be processed and 
    preserved and even exported. Some say it is a Nigeria where homes 
    will have assess to pipe borne 
    water and diseases reduced. Some say it is a Nigeria where public 
    servants will learn to resign when they are no longer wanted and 
    when it is obvious that they are inadequate for the responsibility 
    they are assigned. Some say it is a Nigeria where children will be 
    taught by teachers and not people who are just looking for daily 
    bread. Some say it is a Nigeria where businesses will be licensed 
    according to training and experience and no more carpenters being 
    licensed to open clinics and maternities and brick layers being 
    licensed to open schools. Some even say it is a Nigeria where mega 
    shops such as plus, lydl, Aldi, 
    Tesco, media markt, Wallmarkt, Penny markt, 
    Schleker, etc will be seen 
    scattered all over the places like we see here. Some say it is a 
    Nigeria where industries will increase and importation reduced.
Do you know what? My dream Nigeria is a Nigeria where all the 
    above exist and even better things added. I dream of a Nigeria 
    where the Europeans and Americans will come to take aduro. After 
    all, they love to spread themselves out in the sun. Why not? Every 
    thing we need for this is in Nigeria. The only thing we lack is 
    will – political will to serve responsibly and conscientiously, 
    civil will to keep rules and regulations and obey the law, social 
    will to act responsibly and sensibly so that others can be, 
    economic will to work and earn clean living, religious will to live 
    what we preach, patriotic will to contribute to the growth and 
    upliftment of our country, etc.
It is every Nigerian’s responsibility to make Nigeria realize 
    our dreams for her. Come and help. Nigeria needs you.
Chika Ezeh – Managing Editor, NIDO Germany newsletter.
