Stop breeding illiterates!
SIR: Some Nigerian dailies recently reported the Federal 
    Executive Council’s approval of N1.17billion for the 
    ministry of education to procure books for public primary 
    schools.
The above news item will probably send a joyous signal to 
    parents of children in public primary schools in Nigeria because, 
    according to the report, the books (Mathematics, English and Basic 
    Science) are to be procured for primary four children in the 
    Universal Basic Education (UBE) programme.
At a cost of about N500 per book (because books in the mentioned 
    subjects are expensive), this would only procure books for four 
    million children and that would be about 800,000 books per subject. 
    That would be about one book for 20 children in public schools. 
    This, to my mind, is not really educating our children but breeding 
    illiterates.
I think it is about time we started building capacity for 
    education of our children in Nigeria and stop deceiving ourselves 
    by the free education (whether qualitative or not) programme of 
    most states and federal government.
Universal Basic Education presupposes that the 25million 
    registered pupils for the UBE programme in primary schools will at 
    least be educated in the four core text subjects namely 
    Mathematics, Basic Science, English and Social Studies. Even by 
    providing one book for two children, there would still be a need 
    for the states and federal government to procure 50million books 
    for the UBE programme.
Assuming that the procurement of such large books would be 
    cheaper because of the economy of scale, it cannot cost less than 
    N300 per book. In that case, 50million books would then cost a 
    minimum of N15billion. I doubt whether the combined effort of both 
    states and federal government can spend such huge amount of money 
    procuring books let alone building the infrastructure and train 
    teachers for a sustainable qualitative education.
Building capacity in the publishing industry must also include 
    the protection of intellectual property. The socio-economic 
    principle that copyright protection encourages individual effort 
    and invariably enriches the society is the guiding principle behind 
    the enactment and enforcement of copyright laws by many nations. 
    Paul Gleason (1998) observed in his article, International 
    Copyright, that today’s copyright law serves several 
    purposes which apart from providing financial compensation to 
    authors to reward them of their creative works, also encourages 
    progress in the country’s arts and sciences in order to foster its 
    economic, social and cultural development.
In most countries, the intellectual property protection 
    contributes at least 25 per cent of GDP. In Nigeria therefore, 
    government should insist that all UBE books should be authored by 
    Nigerians and the books printed in Nigeria. I do not think that 
    Nigeria has capacity to produce all books needed for tertiary 
    education but we definitely have authors capable of developing 
    books that are not only culturally relevant but as I said earlier, 
    enrich the society and build capacity in the publishing 
    industry.
It is an illusion that we do not have printing capacity in 
    Nigeria. There are lots of printers who will be glad to expand 
    their printing presses in order to accommodate the procurement of 
    books made locally. There are many web presses that are serving 
    newspapers today; their extra capacity can be used in providing 
    books.
Let me digress a little. Today, according to information, there 
    are 67million subscribers to mobile phone networks in Nigeria. 
    Everyone has a cellular phone, from the grandma in the village to 
    the sophisticated urban child of school age. Assuming each 
    subscriber spends at least N1, 000 per annum; that means that we 
    spend N67billion talking in one year. I am sure that this is the 
    minimum this country spends. The telephone companies are currently 
    making millions out of people who spend their time chatting but are 
    not educated.
Going by this simple analysis, it is obvious that most parents 
    can afford to spend at least N1,000 buying core textbooks for their 
    wards in Nigerian schools. This would translate to N25billion 
    revenue generated in building capacity for publishing in Nigeria. 
    It would also create tremendous employment in the periphery 
    industries like printing, distribution, royalty to authors etc. apart from the fact that the government would then have the 
    needed cash to build capacity in training teachers and 
    infrastructures in schools. That would definitely, in combination 
    with availability of books, engender a meaningful, qualitative and 
    sustainable education for our children instead of breeding 
    illiterates as we do at the moment.
Children who are half educated spend their time kidnapping and 
    resorting to all sorts of means to survive in an economy that does 
    not grow because of lack of proper education.
