Letter to Mr President
Dear Mr. President,
It is an honour for me to write to the father of our dear 
    nation, children may have the right to make choices, but God 
    decides who will father them. Contrary to many opinions of your 
    children that you got to the position not by popular demand, I hold 
    a strong opinion that you’re the one privileged to lead because of 
    the purpose of God for this nation. So, he that is privileged to 
    hold a position, should use it to please who orchestrated his 
    choice.
While your ailing health is one that brings pain to the heart of 
    some of us, I, amongst others, are praying that you’ll live long 
    enough to see a successor take over your position amongst your 
    children in a free and fair election.
While death is inevitable, the impact that is left behind by the 
    actions of the dead is important if generations to come will 
    celebrate or curse him. You are among the privileged few given the 
    opportunity to know they are dying so that they can make amends 
    before going to the world of the dead.
Two things are common with sensible people who know they are 
    dying: they ruminate on the past - the mistakes they have made; and 
    they seek for ways to make amends before departing. Some fathers in 
    the course of dying have said sorry to their children but are not 
    given the privilege to correct the harm that is done. Your case, 
    however, seems different from this lot. You have the opportunity of 
    ruminating on the past blunders of fathers who have ruled this 
    nation and find solution to as many of them as possible before your 
    ailing health eventually fails you.
With all the problems you inherited, it’s definitely a miracle 
    that you are still alive - Niger/Delta issues, ASUU strike, no 
    light, etc, are some of the depressing challenges that you have 
    been left to saddle by those you succeeded. The weight of years of 
    challenges that was swept under the carpet has in your own time in 
    office become breath-sapping. It’s unfortunate that this has 
    happened, it shows that when a successor inherits things 
    from fathers who haven’t been all responsible, it’s a burden in 
    disguise that he has. He can only be happy for a short 
    while in the victory he has, except he’s cold-hearted and blinded 
    to the plight of the people that he has come to govern.
Sir, it’s a common saying that, it’s the children that 
    are deprived that become the pain in the neck of those who enjoyed 
    the privileges of the love and care of their fathers. 
    Such is the case of the Niger/Delta challenges that you have 
    inherited. The approach you’re taking in offering amnesty is good, 
    gunning them down may sound good.
History has, however, shown that you can’t resolve a long time 
    issue in any of these ways. Rather, it can be better resolved 
    through dialogue and implementation of the agreements reached so 
    that peace may be restored to the troubled region. The more they 
    are killed or left with the feeling of being deprived, the more 
    their agitation will continue.
ASUU strike is a good example which confirms this 
    assrtion. The agitators may be 
    bullied with ‘no work, no pay’ threat, 
    but a people deprived of the agreements amicably reached will, at a 
    point, damn the consequences thrown at them until the demands are 
    made.
I appreciate the fact that during your tenure, the political 
    killings seem to be a thing of the past, the aviation industry 
    seems far safer. Yet, something should be done about the religious 
    problem that has led to the death of lives and loss of billions 
    naira worth of properties. The extra judicial killing of the Boko 
    Haram leader should be investigated and the culprits be allowed to 
    face the law. Remember that as the father to the nation, you’re not 
    allowed to show favouritism to any religion. It’s important that 
    you look critically into religious killings in the northern part of 
    the country to find solutions to it.
The reality is that even if you live to enjoy the second term, 
    you can’t solve all of the problems of this nation. However, you 
    can start a constructive process, not by solving all the enormous 
    challenges but by solving a problem at a time until you hand over 
    the baton. If it’s the electricity issue that you want to handle, 
    start it and end it, so that posterity may celebrate you when they 
    see light. Let ‘up and down NEPA’ be a 
    thing of the past in this country. I feel that you should take care 
    of ASUU issue once and for all for the sake of our children. The 
    private universities are having undue advantage over the public 
    ones because of years of neglect and strikes. This country will not 
    be safe if the intellectuals become criminals because they can’t 
    get jobs when their age is far more than what employers require, 
    thanks to ASUU strike and poor funding of the tertiary 
    institutions.
I will end this write-up by quoting this wise saying; 
    ‘The king that rules and makes the people 
    he governs to prosper and be at peace will never be forgotten while 
    same goes fot the 
    tyrant."
What will you like to be remembered for?
