Calling Igbinedion University
SIR: I wish to use this medium to appeal to the Igbinedion 
    University authorities to act fast and save the lives of its 
    students from the present epidemic ravaging the students due to the 
    poor quality of water they drink.
The students are either sick or recovering from one ailment or 
    the other at present and if this case is not addressed immediately, 
    the school authorities might find themselves in a big dilemma that 
    will overwhelm them. The supply of clean drinking water in the 
    university has become a mirage hence students who cannot afford the 
    expensive but scarce bottled water end up drinking this bad 
    water.
The situation is made worse now due to the hot weather and the 
    only means of quenching their (students) thirst is to drink the 
    only available water within their premises. Cases of water-borne 
    ailments have risen within the past couple of months and most of 
    these students have had to visit health clinics frequently due to 
    the health complications now paramount in the school. Many have 
    been taken home for proper medical attention only to return back to 
    the same precarious situation.
The school authorities need to act now as we are talking about 
    human lives here and a stitch in time, they say, saves nine. 
    Appropriate soil tests need to be carried out and then boreholes 
    with treatment plants should be constructed immediately in 
    strategic locations within the university.
Parents are making adequate financial sacrifices in Okada hence 
    their children deserve the basic school amenities which include 
    supply of potable drinking water. Budding young ones should be 
    protected from such ‘poisonous’ situation.
Also the issue of the School Clinic not opening on Sundays needs 
    to be addressed as emergencies give no prior notice and can occur 
    at any given time or day.
• Ngozi Konye R.
Isolo, Lagos
    ,.
