Ekaette still under the microscope
SIR: I wish to thank The Nation for publishing my articles and 
    letters in your widely read newspapers. Your newspaper is one of 
    the few that daily come fresh and on time. I also discover that 
    yours is one of the newspapers that publish letters and articles 
    that are topically based; therefore I believe that all my past 
    pieces merited your standards.
I have read a sort of rejoinder to my piece which you published 
    on November 11, written by one Desire Umanah Oboh based in Abuja. I 
    am sure you published the rejoinder for sake of balancing, 
    otherwise it was myopic and unworthy.
What I wrote about Minister Ufot Ekaette was nothing borne out 
    of any malice but catalogue of what people (quoted some names) have 
    said in the past about his appointment, and Niger Delta is a 
    topically burning issue. I do write on general issues as they 
    arose. I am not ethnical and do not believe in tribalism. I have 
    written on the Anambra unsettled issue which Desire childishly, 
    myopically tried to draw my attention to and this was also 
    published by your respected newspaper.
I do not want to sound childish and myopic as Desire did, 
    depicting someone fighting a tribal war; otherwise I would have 
    replied wildly asking him few questions: Did Akwa Ibom not have 58 
    PDP governorship primary contestants for the 2007 gubernatorial? Is 
    Akwa Ibom at peace with almost all the people that created the 
    present government and even our (fortunately) respected wife and 
    their sister, Mrs. Christy Essien Igbokwe, who God actually 
    used to create the wealth Akwa Ibom is enjoying today? Has the 
    Ekaettes been able to settle with Bishop Sam Akpan (Akwa Ibom PDP 
    Deputy Chairman) who soon would take over the Senate seat which 
    Lady Eme Ekaette is presently occupying?
Please advice Desire to always write rejoinders sensibly; I love 
    all Nigerian nationalities including Akwa Ibom people that are 
    sensible. I will never and cannot insult Minister Ekaette, an 
    elder.
• Obidigbo Mgbachi,
Ekwulobia, Anambra State.
