Call JAMB to order
SIR: The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) was 
    established to conduct matriculation examinations for admission to 
    tertiary institutions. It appears the Board has added another 
    mandate to its function. An ignoble and despicable one for that 
    matter: exploitation of the helpless candidates seeking 
    admission.
My son wrote the 2009 JAMB Universities Matriculation 
    Examination (UME). He was offered admission to read Computer 
    Science at the University of Lagos. To process his registration, we 
    are required to provide among other documents, JAMB Result Slip.
To collect the Result Slip from JAMB, candidates are requested 
    to buy a scratch card, "Result Slip Card" at a cost of 
    N1,000! This is sheer exploitation. Are candidates not entitled to 
    notification of results after examination? Why should printing the 
    result from the internet cost that much?
It is pertinent to state that candidates had earlier bought a 
    scratch card "JAMB Online information service" at a cost 
    of N400 to check and print the same result when it was released by 
    the Board. The only difference in the two printouts is the 
    candidate’s photograph and the JAMB logo on the Result Slip.
To perpetrate this exploitation, JAMB puts a disclaimer on the 
    printout obtained with the JAMB Online information service scratch 
    card. To wit: Candidates are required to obtain their result slips 
    from the Board as the result information contained herein does not 
    constitute valid admission documentation and will therefore not be 
    acceptable as such by both the institution applied to and/or the 
    Board.
The JAMB Online information service scratch card "allows 
    five access (sic) on one registration number". Most candidates 
    do not use up this number. Why wouldn’t JAMB allow candidates to 
    use the same card to print Result Slips when needed?
Until recently, JAMB usually prints candidates’ results and 
    posts same to their specified addresses at no extra cost to the 
    candidates. Now candidates pay N1,000 to JAMB to print the result 
    themselves. Haba. There should be some decency and fairness in 
    "revenue generation".
Were JAMB’s intention to guarantee the authenticity of the 
    result slips candidates submit as documentation for admission 
    (sequel to the disclaimer quoted above), she would have been 
    responsible for printing the result on customized and secure paper. 
    But, it is obvious JAMB only wanted to make money for doing 
    nothing.
JAMB should borrow a leaf on decent operation from the West 
    African Examinations Council (WAEC). WAEC does not charge 
    candidates extra cost for issuing certificates, notwithstanding the 
    high operational costs and the permanence of its certificate.
I think it is high time the National Assembly looked into the 
    cost profile of JAMB examinations. How could a one-day multiple 
    choice examination marked and graded by computer cost as much as 
    Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) conducted by WAEC over 
    a period of one month and marked by computers and humans? Aren’t 
    computers said to reduce operational costs?
As it stands now, JAMB charges candidates twice for the same 
    service. This is immoral and inconsiderate. JAMB must be called to 
    order. The Minister of Education must stop this exploitation and 
    quickly too.
