Dear Prof.,
Re: Study Visit in March 2010
I write to confirm the support of the Department of English of 
    this university for the programme of your study visit to the 
    university from March 1st to March 12th 2010. Your programme of 
    visit is very much in line with the desire of our university for 
    collaboration and exchange programme between staff and students of 
    different universities.
It will be our greatest desire to receive your students and let 
    them share knowledge and interact with our students here. We shall 
    be ready to provide the logistic support necessary for the visit. A 
    step by step response in italics to the programme of your study 
    visit is presented below:
March 1: Arrival
As soon as we receive your flight schedule, a staff of 
    the Department of English (host department) whom you will recognize 
    easily will be detailed to receive you at the Airport in Lagos on 
    your arrival. Please, make provision for a night lodging at a 
    nearby hotel to the Airport (say about $50 per room which may allow 
    pairing) if you are arriving after 4pm.
March 2: Students get to know each other; German students learn 
    about studying English in Ife, possibly visit some lectures.
A 3 hour symposium (9am - 12noon) will be organized by 
    the host department to address the topic. At least two staff 
    members, one graduate and one undergraduate student will be lead 
    paper presenters. The university community will be invited via 
    e-mail.
Arrangement will be made for your visiting students to 
    partake in lecture sessions with host students or students in a 
    nearby university (not more than 1 hour journey by road transport), 
    as the case may be.
March 3: German students present the purpose of the data 
    collection, their interview questions and questionnaires, Nigerian 
    students comment on the suitability and suggest changes, if 
    necessary.
This can be accommodated in the graduate seminar of the 
    host department which holds normally on Friday 9am-12 noon every 
    week. The time schedule may change to suit the programme of the 
    visitors.
March 4-6: Recordings of sociolinguistic interviews with 
    Nigerians of various age groups; interviews carried out in pairs, 
    i.e. one Nigerian and one German student.
There will be no problem regarding this. The university 
    community (which is residential to students and a large percentage 
    of staff) and adjoining town(s) are extensive enough for field work 
    and should provide enough data required. The supporting group of 
    students will be provided but may need to be paid some 
    stipends.
March 7: Visiting Ile-Ife and introduction to Yoruba culture
The host department will request resource persons from 
    both the Department of Linguistics and African Languages and 
    Institute of Cultural Studies in our university to arrange a 2hr 
    lecture sessions for our visitors and this will be followed by a 
    visit to areas of interest in Ile-Ife.
March 8-10: Carrying out questionnaire on acceptability of 
    certain grammatical structures.
Respondents are available to researchers to the extent 
    of their demand and there should be no problem at all about this 
    activity.
March 11: Visiting some of the surrounding/towns
The visitors will definitely enjoy a visit to a number 
    of places of historic/cultural significance, e.g. Ife 
    Museum; the palace of the Ooni (Paramount ruler) of Ife, a city 
    regarded historically as the cradle of the Yoruba race; Olumirin 
    waterfall at Erin-Jesa etc.
March 12: Departure
I hereby officially invite you to our department and am awaiting 
    your arrival in March 2010. I assure your team of a wonderful 
    period of academic 
    fulfillment and relaxation. Please, let us know as soon as 
    your application for funding is approved so that we can begin to 
    make the necessary preparations regarding the visit.
Thank you.

Prof. 
Head of Department
