POSTGRADUATE STUDIES

26 February, 2009
Dear Mr 
ADMISSION AND REGISTRATION FOR HIGHER DEGREE COURSE
With reference to your application for admission to a higher 
    degree of this University in the Department of Archaeology and 
    Anthropology, it is my pleasure to inform you that the application 
    is successful. Your registration will be for the degree of M.Phil/Ph.D [Anthropology] in the first instance, while 
    upgrading for candidature for the Ph.D will depend on your 
    performance at the end of the first calendar year examination.
1. Please take note of the following conditions relating to your 
    registration.
(a) Higher degree students are expected to commence their 
    courses at the beginning of Session for the 2008/09 Session.
(b) You will be required to present the originals of your 
    educational/other relevant credentials, including the NYSC 
    Discharge/Exemption Certificate, and obtain a clearance from the 
    appropriate officer of the Postgraduate School before you proceed 
    to make payment of the prescribed fees.
(c) You will thereafter be required to make appropriate payment 
    in accordance with the Financial Regulation and obtain the 
    Bursary's financial clearance on your Registration Forms.
(d) This offer is subject to your producing the documents in 
    (b & c) above and also fulfilling all 
    financial requirements.
2. Information on the Financial Regulations of the University 
    for Higher Degree/Diploma can be found on the PG School Web site 
    .
3. If you are a foreign student, a copy of our letter to the 
    Director-General, Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs, Abuja is 
    enclosed herewith for your necessary action. When replying for 
    entry permit or visa, you are requested to furnish him with the 
    following items of information to accelerate action on your 
    application.
(a) Your nationality (b) Date and place of birth (c) Passport 
    number, date and place of issue (d) Validity of passport (e) 
    Sponsorship (f) Anticipated length of stay at the University of 
    Ibadan.
It is important to note that a residence 
    permit is necessary for the confirmation of an offer of 
    admission.
4. Very limited Hall accommodation is available for full-time 
    Higher Degree students and will be allocated on the basis of 
    first-come first-served. Students are advised to get in touch with 
    the Lodgings Officer, Student Affairs Division, University of 
    Ibadan. You can find additional information on lodging on the PG 
    School Web site.
5. You are required to register for your Programme of study 
    within five weeks of the beginning of the academic year and renew 
    your registration annually until you finally complete your 
    programme.
6. If you accept the offer, kindly print and complete 2 copies 
    of the Acceptance Form on the Web site and return same to me 
    immediately.
7. Please note that the offer may be revoked and your place 
    given to someone else, if within three weeks from the date of this 
    letter you have not competed and returned the printed and completed 
    acceptance forms.
8. It is mandatory that you are present for your clearance at 
    the Admissions Office of the Postgraduate School, between 
    Thursday, 26 February 2009 and Friday, 27 March 
    2009. Please note that this offer stands forfeited, if 
    you are not cleared within those dates.
cc: Dean, Faculty of Arts
Head, Department of Archaeology and Anthropology
Yours sincerely,

  
    
Secretary, Postgraduate School
NB: This Offer of Admission is also subject to the receipt of 
    your Masters Certificate and First Degree Certificate.
