Dear Sir,
Invitation to serve as Course Developer
You have been recommended as a resource person for the 
    development of course materials for the B A English programme of 
    the National Open University of Nigeria. On behalf of the 
    Vice-Chancellor, the School of Arts and Social Sciences therefore 
    wishes to request your expertise in the developing the following 
    course(s):
Course Title: ENG 209: Language and Society
Credit Units: 3 credit units
Details of the exercise are attached as follows:
a) A copy of the course description
b) A copy of 'Basic Principles and Strategies of Course 
    Writing in DDL system'
c) A copy of NOUN house-style format
d) A copy of a sample course guide, and a sample unit
e) A copy of terms of reference for the exercise
The timeline for submission will be 4 weeks from date of 
    acceptance. However, we request that you send in your first 
    completed unit, a course outline (identified topics) within the 
    three days. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you need more 
    information.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
 Ph.D
Overseer, School of Arts and Social Sciences
Cc: The Vice-Chancellor
Director, Course Material Development Unit.
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR DEVELOPMENT AND WRITING OF COURSE 
    MATERIALS
1.0 All Course materials must be written in NOUN House Style.
1.1 A Course Guide must be provided as a 
    window into what the course is all about: The course guide is the 
    very first study unit but it stands alone.
1.2 A Course must have sufficient number of study units, the 
    minimum is as follows: 1 credit unit * 7 
    study units; 2 credit units = 14 study units, 3 credit units = 21 
    study units.
1.3 The study units should be structured Into modules with a 
    module comprising of 4 to 5 related study units.
1.4 Each study unit contains the following 
    subheadings:
1. Title
2 Introduction
3. Objectives
4. Main body arranged in sub-titles and in sequence
6. Conclusion
7. Summary
8. Tutor Marked Assignment
9. References/ Further Reading
1.4.1 As many Self - Assessment Exercises 
    as appropriate should be provided within the body of each unit. 
    Self-assessment exercises are for the student to evaluate his/her 
    understanding of the material so far. They are not to be submitted, 
    However, answers must be provided or directions be given for 
    students as to where to find the answers within the unit.
1.4.2 Each study unit must contain a Tutor Marked 
    Assignment. Answers to all Tutor Marked Assignments and 
    marking Scheme are contained in one separate unit at end of the 
    course material.
1.5 The main body of each unit (that is, 
    excluding the introduction, objectives, conclusion, summary, and 
    references) should be a minimum of 7-10 Printed A4 size 
    pages, using 13-point Times New Roman font size and single 
    spacing. Each study unit must have Self-Assessment 
    Exercises (SAEs) embedded within the unit and at least I Tutor 
    Marked Assignment (TMA) at the end of each study unit.
Note: We realize that units can be of varying depths 
    and as such, no two units will be exactly same in terms of length. 
    However, the above In 1.5 should be viewed as a 
    guide.
1.8 Marking Scheme for the tutor marked 
    assignments must be provided on a stand-alone basis for all.
20 Other Matters.
2.1 A course outline (topics), and the first study unit should 
    be submitted for preview before you continue with the writing.
2.2 Each Study Unit attracts a remuneration of =N=5.000.00.
2.3 Each Developer/Writer will receive one complementary copy of 
    all the publications arising out of their work on the course 
    material.
3.0 Please find attached a sample of a NOUN Course 
    Guide and the first Unit of a NOUN Course material.
4.0 If the terms and conditions are agreeable to you, kindly 
    endorse the letter by appending your signature on the copy attached 
    and return same to the undersigned.
