
XXX UNIVERSITY
OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR
 X. 
     Ph.D
September 18, 2009
Dr.  
    
Department of English
 University
Dear Dr 
Appointment As Adjunct Lecturer.
We are writing to acknowledge and appreciate your continued 
    interest in the academic development of our young University. I am 
    therefore, please to inform you of Management's approval of 
    your appointment as Senior 
    Lecturer in the Adjunct Lectureship cadre of 
    the University in the Department of English 
    Language & Literary Studies, School of 
    Human Resource Development of our 
    College of Development 
    Studies during the 2009/2010 session.
Your responsibilities and our expectations in this position 
    shall include the following:
i) Prompt and quality delivery of teaching services at whatever 
    level of assignment. We expect that an Associate Lecturer should 
    put in a minimum of 8 contact hours with students per month. We are 
    glad about your commitment to both the undergraduate and 
    postgraduate courses in your particular case.
ii) Monitoring and supervision of assigned students for seminar 
    presentations.
iii) Quality involvement in presentation and evaluation of 
    students' seminar papers.
iv) Quality assistance to students in understanding research 
    focus and topic selection.
v) Quality supervision to assigned student(s) in all respect of 
    timely completion of their programme(s).
vi) Filing of periodic reports to both Postgraduate School and 
    the College on issue of performance by assigned student(s) with a 
    new to assisting them to achieve excellence through timely 
    mentoring.
Terms of Appointment:
(a) Relationship:The 
    Associate lectureship appointment is an agreement with you to 
    provide specified academic services to indicated 
     University students at determined 
    location, time and in the required quality.
(b) Remuneration:
You will be paid N  per annum 
    which will be made available either quarterly or at end of session 
    as lump sum. Remuneration may not be paid in advance.
(c) Other Benefits:
(i) Your transport allowance is dependent on distance between 
    your location of tenure appointment and the University.Lecturers 
    are requested to arrange consolidated teaching periods to minimize 
    frequency of their visit. Transport allowance will be paid as 
    approved by the University or at current rate subsisting in the 
    University. A lecturer can visit only for the maximum number of 
    times that his/her travel costs can be factored into the maximum 
    travel expenditure budgeted.
(ii) Comfortable accommodation shall be provided during your 
    stay on campus for this purpose.
(iii) Feeding arrangement or allowance in lieu at N 1,000 per 
    day shall be paid for every full day of specific associate 
    lectureship responsibility.
You are expected to pass on your agreed timetable, after your 
    interaction with the students, to the Dean of your College and copy 
    the Postgraduate School once agreed. An advance notice of 
    postponement, where unavoidable, should be communicated to the 
    students through the Postgraduate School.
We are very well pleased to have you as part of the educational 
    revolution at  University and are 
    therefore looking forward to receiving you. We see you fulfilled in 
    this honoured involvement in human development.
Yours Faithfully,

Dr.  
    X. 
Registrar
Cc. VC
Dean, CDS
Dean, SPS
DFS
HOD, Eng.Lang & 
    Lit Studies
Deputy Registrar
Establishment
