STRIKE BULLETIN # 11
1. The Technical Committee (TC) of the Dialogue Committee 
    finished its work on Wednesday, May 7 2003, and produced a signed 
    report, inspite of the series of obstacles placed in its way. 
2. The report of the Technical Committee was scheduled for 
    presentation to its principal, the Dialogue Committee yesterday, 
    Thursday, May 8 2003. unfortunately the Minister of  Education did 
    not show up. The meeting, therefore, could not discuss the report 
    and was adjourned. 
3. The Honourable Minister of Labour has appealed to the union 
    to be patient as he is making effort to reconvene the meeting of 
    the Dialogue Committee next week to discuss the report. 
4. Our union remains committed to the resolution of the crisis 
    through the ongoing Dialogue and would attend any re-scheduled 
    meeting, accordingly. 
5. National    Strike    Coordinating    Committee    (NSCC)    
    is    aware of the announcements of resumption in some 
    universities. 
6. We salute the resoluteness of our members in the affected 
    branches and urge members in other branches not to be deceived by 
    such announcements. The struggle continues. 
7. Government has obviously become more desperate-a lot of 
    people have been and are being massively recruited to play various 
    roles, including putting our loyal members under pressure and 
    blackmail to break the strike. With our collective resolve they 
    will continue to fail, for victory belongs to us and the Nigerian 
    people. 
8. Colleagues, our struggle has reached a critical stage and we 
    must remain resolute. 
What to do? 
1. Demand from your Chairman a copy of the full briefing on the 
    struggle so far and digest same for your information. Also, get a 
    signed copy of the report of the Technical Committee from your 
    Chairman.
2. Do not sign any register or resumption form in whatever 
    format presented by your university administration. 
3. The strike remains total: do not attend any statutory or 
    other meetings, however disguised. Do not teach but continue to do 
    your research. 
4. Attend all congress meetings for first-hand information 
    from   your Chairman. Worse attempts will be made in the coming 
    days at propaganda and disinformation by Government and its agents. 
    Don't be deceived. 
5. Be patient with our detractors; do your best to educate them 
    on the issues at stake. Continue to educate the general public. 
Colleagues the stakes are high in this struggle. 
REMAIN RESOLUTE! PERSEVERE!! THIS UNION MAKES US STRONG!!! 
National Strike Coordinating Committee May 09, 2003 

