THE XXX UNIVERSITY OF XXX
I The Course Format or Housestyle
1. The Course Guide
The Course Guide (CG) should precede all other Units of the 
    Course. The CG gives a general overview of the Course and provides 
    useful information to the student about the structure or format of 
    the course; the credit units attached to the course and how they 
    are to be obtained; assessment (assignments and examinations), and 
    the schedule of activities - important dates.
2. The Unit
A Unit is the smallest segment of an 
    instructional material that can stand alone, but which is also 
    linked to other Units to form a 
    Module. It should have the following 
    characteristics:
i) It should engage an average Distance Learner (DL) student for 
    at least three hours of serious work, which is equivalent to one 
    hour of work under the conventional system.
ii) Depending on the subject matter, a full Unit of 
    structured content should cover between 7 and 10 pages (A4, 
    typeset, 10 or 11 points of Times Roman or any appropriate 
    font)
iii) A unit should have:
a) A table of contents (TOC)
b) Introduction (1.0)
c) Objectives (2.0)
d) Main content, which should have self-assessment exercises 
    (SAEs) and self-assessment questions (SAQs). The introduction may 
    also contain some SAEs and SAQs (3.0) Particular symbols or 
    icons may be adopted to signal theses activities in the text.
e) Conclusion (4.0)
f) Summary (5.0)
g) References and recommended books (6.0)
iv) At the end of the Unit, there should be 
    at least 1 standard tutor-marked assignment question (TMAQ), which 
    will form part of the TMAQs al the end of the 
    Module.
v) Tables, diagrams, illustrations should be used where 
    appropriate.
3. The Module
i) Contains up to 5 Units, which make up a 
    Module. The units, which make up a Module, 
    must be thematically linked to each other.
ii) At the end there should be TMAQs there will be an assignment 
    file, which will contain all the TMAQs at the end of every Unit.
iii) There should be references and a list of recommended books 
    at the end of each Module.
4. The Course
The Course is made up of all the 
    Modules.

