REPORT OF THE MAY 08. 2003 FGN/XXX DIALOGUE 
    COMMITTEE MEETING
1. Preamble
In the last report on the state of the work of the Technical 
    Committee (TC) which was constituted by the FGN/ 
    Dialogue Committee, certain problems that hampered the work of the 
    Technical Committee were identified. Also, certain areas in which 
    no consensus had been reached and/or where agreement could not be 
    reached on how to record the differences of positions of the two 
    teams, Government and , were 
    indicated. The Technical Committee therefore adjourned to enable 
    the members of both the Government Team and the 
     Team to consult, to allow time 
    for reflection on how to proceed, and also to enable the Chairman 
    of the Technical Committee, , brief 
    as well as consult the Chairman of the Dialogue Committee, 
    , the Honourable Minister of 
    Labour, Employment and Productivity. The TC also agreed to resume 
    its work on May 06, 2003, if the Chairman of the Dialogue Committee 
    considered it useful to have the TC to proceed with, and complete 
    its work. The decision of the TC to leave to the Chairman of the 
    Dialogue Committee the issue of whether or not it should continue 
    and complete its work was informed by the Government Team's 
    insistence that the TC had come to an unbreakable deadlock and 
    could make no further progress, especially on one of the key 
    issues, namely, the scheduling of the specific amounts in the 
    Agreement and the related issue of the specific amount to be 
    provided to make the universities functional when academic work 
    resumes. In contrast,  Team was 
    optimistic that a way could be found to resolve the impasse.
2. Meeting of the Technical Committee with the Minister of 
    Labour
As it turned out, the Honourable Minister of Labour, Employment 
    and Productivity , by his letter of 
    April 30, 2003, invited the Chairman and members of the TC to a 
    meeting with him at 9.00 a.m. on May 06, 2003. 
    He also summoned a meeting of the Dialogue Committee for May 07, 
    2003 at 4.00 p.m. The special meeting of TC was 
    presided over by the Honourable Minister of Labour 
    , Employment and Productivity. It was 
    attended by all the members of the 
     Team, plus all the ASUU Teams Technical advisers; the Chairman of 
    the TC, , and his two Technical 
    Advisers, Her Excellency Mrs  and 
    , Chairman of the Committee of 
    Vice-chancellors. In attendance also were the Permanent Secretary 
    and Director in charge of Trade Union Matters, Federal Ministry of 
    Labour; the Executive Secretary of NUC, as well as the Secretariat 
    staff of the TC. The Government Team in the meeting had two of its 
    three members, as well as, one of the technical advisers to the 
    team, namely, the one drawn from the Federal Ministry of 
    Finance.
It was at this special meeting of the TC, presided over by the 
    Honourable Minister of Labour, that the 
     Team made a proposal which broke 
    the impasse on re-scheduling of  the 
    specific amounts of funds required by the universities as contained 
    in FGN/ Agreement of June 30, 2001. The Team proposed 
    that the following clause should be inserted in the report of the 
    TC:
"that, in the event of the Federal Government having any 
    difficulties in meeting its obligations as contained in the 
    schedule of funds to be provided to universities in any year, 
     should be invited to enable the two sides work out 
    mutually acceptable solutions". The Government Team then 
    agreed to provide a schedule of the specific amounts of required 
    funds as contained in the June 2001 FGN/ 
     Agreement the understanding that 
    the clause would be inserted into the report".
With this positive development, the TC withdrew from the meeting 
    and then resumed its normal meeting promising the Chairman of the 
    Dialogue Committee and the Honourable Minister of Labour that it 
    would finish its work and submit a report by 4.00 pm on May, 
    7 2003 to enable the Dialogue Committee hold its meeting as already 
    planned
2. The Resumed Meeting of the Technical Committee
The leader of the Government Team had, at the meeting with the 
    Honourable Minister of Labour and Chairman Dialogue Committee which 
    ended at about 11.00 am on May, 6 2003, requested for a 
    two-hour interval. This was to enable him consult his 
    "principals" and prepare a schedule acceptable to them 
    before presentation to the TC. His request was granted and the TC 
    therefore agreed to resume by 1.00 pm on the same day.
When the TC resumed at 2.00 p.m. on May 6 2003, with its 
    work, which was mainly to approve a draft report distributed to 
    members a week earlier, it was delayed by one strange 
    development.
• The Government Team produced what it titled "schedule of 
    required funds" and defined "required funds" in the 
    FGN/ Agreement to imply that the 
    Federal Government was not under any obligation to fund Federal 
    universities in line with the amount specified in the Agreement. 
    Rather, the Federal Government would provide whatever amount it 
    wished or could afford, and the rest would be provided by the 
    private sector, parents, civil society 
    organisations, etc.
• Also in the paper on Schedule of Required Funds presented by 
    the Government Team was inserted, after the schedule, a clause 
    totally different from the one mutually agreed upon in the meeting 
    with Honourable Minister of Labour and Productivity.
The two clauses contained in the paper on scheduling by the 
    Government Team, which tended to contradict or undermine the 
    provisions on funding in Chapter Five of the FGN/ 
    Agreement of 2001, are reproduced below for ease of reference:
Clause (b) on page 1 of Government Team's paper
"From the above provisions the (Government) Team notes as 
    follows:
(b) that the levels of funds indicated under 5.1.1 
    a Recurrent Expenditure (2001-2003), 5.1.1. b 
    Capital Expenditure (2001-2003) represent a summation of the 
    required funds by the universities, which come from all sources 
    including Government, private sector, internally generated funds, 
    funds expended by parents in the maintenance of their children, 
    etc. It was therefore not intended to come from 
    Government exclusively.
Another clause on page 3 of Government Team's paper
In the case that in any year, Government is unable to achieve 
    the desired quantum of funding as scheduled, the Executive 
    Secretary, on behalf of the Honourable Minister of Education, shall 
    invite  and explain to them what efforts have been 
    made and the inability of Government to meet the scheduled funds 
    for the year.  shall understand and shall not use this 
    as a basis fo a strike."
The Chairman of TC,  , urged the leader of the 
    Governemnt Team to modify the 
    first clause so as not to create the impression that 
    Governemnt was interpreting 
    the FGN/ Agreement in a manner that freed Government 
    of any specific financial obligations to the universities. The 
    Chairman fo CVC  urged 
    the Government Team to remove that clause altogether since it made 
    the schedule of required funds prepared by the Government Team 
    totally meaningless.  team also asked the Government 
    Team to delete the first clause and modify the second one in the 
    manner already mutually agreed upon in the meeting with Honourable 
    Minister of Labour. The Government Team rejected the pleas and 
    requests on the ground that it could not, on its own, alter a 
    document prepared with the consent and approval of its principals. 
    When it became obvious that, once more, a deadlock had been reached 
    on this point, the TC decided to adjourn its meeting and resume the 
    following day.
To facilitate the work of the TC, the Chairman proposed, and the 
    two sides agreed on the following.
• First, a sub-committee made up of two members from each team, 
    that is, (i.e. four members) including the team 
    leader in each side, should meet early the following day and agree 
    on the text of the report, including the aspect of it that 
    reflected Government's position on scheduling of funds.
• Second, the sub-committee should also reflect the amendments 
    to the draft report earlier agreed upon by the TC.
• Third, the financial implications or all aspects of the 
    Agreement, as determined by another sub-committee, set up earlier, 
    should be inserted in the text of the report.
• The TC, in the hope that much of the work would be done at the 
    sub-committee level, therefore, decided to reconvene at 1.00 
    p.m. on May 7 2003, to approve the report, sign it 
    and submit it to the Minister of Labour. It was the hope of the TC 
    that, between 1.00 p.m. and 4.00 p.m. (3hrs), it would be able to produce the final clean 
    copy of its report.
The TC did not meet this target for the following reasons.
• First, the Government Team did not agree to modify its 
    submission on schedule of required funds until about 2.00 
    p.m. thereafter, it was incorporated into the draft 
    report.
• Second, the Government Team questioned the amount provided by 
    the subcommittee on financial implications concerning the quantum 
    of funds required to pay the approved  salary 
    (including the arrears). The Government Team put the amount 
    required at less than N (actually N) 
    while the sub-committee on financial implications put the figure at 
    N (for the period, May 1, 2001 to December 2003). The 
    Government Team's table did not specify the number of months. 
    The matter was then referred to the TC for resolution.
• Third, and most important, on the one hand, all the members of 
    the  Team (including its Technical 
    Advisers) were present and punctual; two members of the Government 
    Team and one technical adviser were also present and punctual, 
    , representing the Minister of 
    Education, was however, conspicuously absent. Mrs 
     , member of Board of Governors, 
    was present and on time.
• On the other hand, the Chairman of the TC did not, contrary to 
    his habit, come to the meeting in time. Indeed, he was not there 
    until 3.35 p.m., about 25 minutes to the 
    scheduled 4.00 p.m. time for the beginning of 
    the meeting of the Dialogue Committee. The explanation he gave for 
    his unusual lateness was that, despite his frantic calls from his 
    hotel to the  , no vehicle was provided until that 
    late in the day. The leader of the Government Team, a Director in 
    the , was fully aware of his position, he explained. 
    It is on record that before the incident, the  had on 
    all occasions provided a vehicle for the Chairman of the committee 
    for his movement to and from his hotel, punctually. It was only 
    when the chairman of the TC arrived that the process of approving 
    and producing the final, clean copy of the report was commenced. 
    The report was ready by about 5.00 p.m.
