XXX UNIVERSITY, XXX, NIGERIA
REPORT OF THE AD-HOC COMMITTEE SET UP BY THE SENATE TO 
    CONSIDER THE REPORT OF THE JOINT COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL AND SENATE 
    SET UP BY THE COUNCIL TO REVIEW THE COMMITTE STRUCTURE OF THE 
    UNIVERSITY
1. MEMBERSHIP
Professor  
     - Chairman/Convenor
Professor O.  - Member
Professor  
     - Member
Mr. K.  - 
    Secretary
2. PREAMBLE
On 14th February, 2006, Council 
    approved the proposal to set up a committee to review the committee 
    system in the University in order to make it more effective and 
    efficient. Council nominated three of its members to serve on the 
    Joint Committee and requested Senate to nominate three 
    if its members.
On the 19th March, 2006, Senate 
    nominated three of its members to serve the Joint Committee.
The report of the Joint Committee was considered by Council on 
    21st February, 2007 and the new 
    committee structure recommended was approved.
On the apparent realization of the fact that Senate's input 
    was required on the matter the Joint Committee's report was 
    forwarded to Senate.
On the 26th September, 2007, Senate 
    decided to set up an Ad-Hoc Committee with the following terms of 
    reference:
"To consider the committee structure as presented, 
    determine its efficiency and effectiveness, make modifications 
    where necessary and advise senate as appropriate".
3. METHOD OF WORK
The Senate Committee henceforth referred to as the committee 
    held its inaugural meeting on Friday 
    25th April, 2008. Three other meetings 
    were held on 14th May, 2008, and 
    1st June, 2008, and 
    1st June, 2008, and 
    4th August, 2008.
The Committee reflected on the terms of reference given to it, 
    discussed the procedural issues that led to Council approving the 
    joint Committee's report before seeking the input of the 
    Senate and checked the enabling provision of the University laws to 
    undertake the review of the Committee Structure.
The Committee then studied the report of the Joint Committee 
    along with the existing Committee Structure as contained in the 
    University Handbook. It thereafter developed its own structure.
4. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
(a) As the Business Committee of the Senate earlier observed, 
    Senate's input should have been sought on the Joint 
    Committee's report before the council could consider it, let 
    alone approve it.
The Chairman of the Senate may need to assure the Senate that 
    the reviewed structure prepared by the Joint Committee and approved 
    by Council without Senate's input is not being implemented 
    already.
(b) In considering the report, the Ad-Hoc Committee noted that 
    the legal backing for the establishment of Committees in the 
    University was provided as section  of the University 
    main laws which states as follows:
"The Council, the Senate, the Board of any Faculty and any 
    body of persons established by or in pursuance of the provisions of 
    this law may respectively establish such Committee for the purposes 
    of their respective functions as they may think fit".
(c) It was also noted that the Joint Committee did not indicate 
    in its report, the justification for merger, modification, 
    cancellation or retention of any Committee as recommended in the 
    report. The reader was therefore left to do the tedious 
    deductions.
5. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Committee has diligently performed the duties assigned to it 
    and came up with the findings, suggestions and recommendations 
    contained in the attached papers. It is hoped that these 
    recommendations would improve the dynamic Committee systems of our 
    Great Institution.
Name Signature

Professor  
     - Chairman
Professor O.  - Member
Professor  
     - Member
Mr. K.  - 
    (Secretary) 
