
OBAFEMI AWOLOWO UNIVERSITY, ILE-IFE
February 18, 2010
RESOLUTION OF THE GOVERNING COUNCIL ON THE WORKERS' 
    ACTION IN THE UNIVERSITY
The Governing Council, at its meeting held on February 17 and 
    18, 2010 noted and reviewed the activities of some of the workers 
    in the University who had since June 2009, most of the time 
    abandoned their duties. It noted, in particular, the action of the 
    workers who
On Tuesday, February 16, 2010 held the Vice-Chancellor and the 
    Registrar hostage for more than five hours with threat to their 
    lives;
On Wednesday, February 17, 2010, physically assaulted members of 
    the Governing Council on their way to Council meeting and 
    subsequently held them hostage from 6.30pm to about 8.30pm until 
    they were rescued by men of Nigerian Police Force led by the Area 
    Commander of the Ife Area Command of the Police;
On the same day vandalized some of the vehicles that were to 
    convey members of Council back to their residences after the days 
    meeting and assaulted some of the drivers;
On Thursday, February 18, 2010, again prevented the efforts to 
    remobilize the vehicles that were vandalized the previous day until 
    the Police men under the Area Command intervened.
Council, while appreciating the right of workers to legitimately 
    make demands for their welfare, however, was of the view that 
    resorting to brigandage and criminality in orchestrating such 
    demands is inimical to the progress of the University. It affirmed 
    that such acts of brigandage and criminality are unexpected, should 
    not be tolerated, in an academic community and in any community for 
    that matter, and should therefore be avoided. Council averred that, 
    in an academic community, workers are expected to demonstrate the 
    highest ethos of civility by communicating their demands in 
    writing, ensuring constructive engagement.
Council consequently resolved that
All manners of rallies by workers during office hours is 
    prohibited henceforth;
All workers should immediately resume work and stay on their 
    duty posts for all official duties, failing which appropriate 
    disciplinary measures will be applied;
The Unions should adhere strictly to extant laws on trade 
    disputes.
Council then directed that
The Unions involved should be surcharged for the cost of the 
    repairs of the vehicles that were vandalized;
All the members of staff found to have been involved in the acts 
    of brigandage and criminality should be made to go through due 
    disciplinary process.
Council affirmed its commitment to staff and students' 
    welfare and the overall wellbeing of the University as an academic 
    community. It assures all workers that it will continue to be 
    opened to democratic and legitimate channels for quick resolution 
    of grievances.
It appealed to all workers to recommit themselves to the ideals 
    of the University with due diligence. Council also calls the 
    attention of all members of staff to the need to comply fully to 
    the Code of Conduct for the University Community.

 
    
Registrar and Secretary to Council
