Enugu raises panel on free maternal health, 
    childcare
The Enugu State Government has inaugurated the State Committee 
    on Free Maternal and Child Care with Dr. Martin Chukwuike, 
    the Commissioner for Health as Chairman.
In an inauguration speech at the Government House, Enugu State 
    Governor, Sullivan Chime, who was represented by his Deputy, Sunday 
    Onyebuchi, noted that the Free Maternal and Child Health Care 
    programme in the State is a road map for accelerating maternal and 
    child mortality reduction in line with the Millennium Development 
    Goals.
He added that the major causes of mortality in Nigerian children 
    included malaria, preventable diseases, particularly measles, 
    diarrhea and 
    mal-nutrition.
The Governor said that these deaths are closely related to 
    poverty and ignorance.
"The poor families being unable to afford the very little 
    but much needed money to go to hospital for children’s clinics, 
    antenatal clinics, delivery and post-natal clinics, are left with 
    no choice except what they can afford."
He regretted that what they could afford most of the time would 
    be going to traditional birth attendants and drug shops manned by 
    untrained people.
The Governor added that it was the challenge posed by this 
    problem that the State government has decided to address.
He enumerated some objectives and targets of the programme which 
    included acceleration and reduction of maternal and child mortality 
    to attain the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to reduce 
    neonatal mortality rate by five per cent per annum and to reduce 
    the incidence of malaria, preventable diseases, acute respiratory 
    infections, among others.
In his speech, the Chairman of the Committee, Dr. Martin 
    Chukwunewike described the free medical 
    programme as the first of its kind and a demonstration of Governor 
    Chime’s special interest in the welfare of women and children in 
    the State.
Chukwuweike, who is also the State Commissioner for Health, on 
    behalf of other members thanked the Governor for finding them fit 
    for the job.
"We believe that once the programme is flagged off it will 
    reach all the State owned health institutions,"said 
    Chukwuweike.
He pledged their total commitment to the success of the 
    programme, stressing that they would work hard to ensure that the 
    programme succeeded.
"We will make sure that all the policies, all the 
    facilities needed for it to be well implemented would be put in 
    place.
We promise that we will not fail you with the support of the 
    Committee members and the cooperation of Government."
