Lagos State Government to Explore Wind Energy
Lagos State Government on Wednesday revealed that it was 
    exploring the possibility of using wind energy and small hydro 
    power systems to combat the recurrent problem of erratic power 
    supply in its rural areas.
The Commissioner for Rural Development, Prince Lanre Balogun, 
    who disclosed this while addressing the press at Alausa 
     added that the government was also going to 
    explore solar energy and on –site-power generating system.
He explained that this has become imperative because of the high 
    cost of connecting several rural communities in the state to the 
    national grid.
Balogun also informed that the state government has also 
    provided 44 oil immense transformers of 500KVA each to various 
    communities within the state up till the end 2007.
The ministry also provided watercraft and motorcycles to 10 
    riverine communities on the other side of River Oshun by Igbonla 
    area to ease their transportation problem, the Commissioner 
    added.
Prince Balogun also informed that the state government has 
    initiated a rural transport scheme called the Lagos Rural 
    Transportation Initiative (LARUTI) which would ensure the 
    manufacture of tricycle that safely convey people and goods from 
    the rural areas to urban centres. 
    .
The commissioner also disclosed that the ministry had employed 
    additional 1, 500 Neighbourhood Watchers and equipped them with 
    necessary equipment to enhance its grassroots security service.
He listed the equipment provided to the neighbourhood watchers 
    to include: 73 patrol vehicles for state officers and coordinators 
    and 201 motorcycles to its field officers to gather information 
    from the grassroots.
He also stated that 50 artisans were trained by experts from 
    Thailand on the production of exportable arts, crafts and 
    house hold furniture that 
    would entail the use of fibre from water hyacinth, banana peels, 
    sisal, coconut leaves, bamboo, cane, willow and raffia.
