PDP convention fixed for March 8
From Johnchuks Onuanyim and Sanni Ologun 
    Abuja
AFTER several postponements, the National Executive Committee 
    (NEC) of the Peoples 
    Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday fixed March 8 for the party’s 
    convention.
The NEC also fixed February 21, 25, 28 and March 4 for the ward, 
    local government, state and zonal congresses.
The party’s National Secretary, Chief Bernart Ezeh, said the 
    Independent National Commission (INEC) would be notified of the 
    dates.
Rising from its meeting in Abuja which 
    brought together estranged members, such as former President 
    Olusegun Obasanjo, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi and Chief Tony Anenih, the 
    NEC readmitted 33 expelled members.
Four, Senator Ifeanyi Araume, , 
    Senator Joel Ikenya, D. F. Maduabum and Ndudi 
    Elumelu, who are members of the House of Representatives, were 
    readmitted.
The fate of the 29 others, it said, would be decided by their 
    states.
President Umaru Yar’Adua appealed to those interested in party 
    office, to abide by the rule of 
    law.
"We have a duty to ensure that these commitments also form 
    the foundation of our conduct in the political arena. This is the 
    only way we can meaningfully strengthen our party and the entire 
    the national political process.
"We need to remind ourselves as we approach the national 
    congresses and convention of the party that we must respect and 
    uphold the rules, regulations and procedures as laid down by our 
    great party. Party cohesion can be sustained within the contest of 
    the defining rules and regulations that allow for fairness at all 
    levels, he said.
The PDP chairman, Senator Ahmadu Ali, disagreed that the reforms 
    introduced by former Obasanjo had been jettisoned by his successor, 
    President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua.
Ali, said what was being 
    mistaken for a dumping of the reforms was the adjustment of some of 
    the policies.
He said: "Let me use this opportunity to dispel fears in 
    some quarters that the economic and positive reforms are being 
    reversed.
"The reforms started by the previous PDP government are on 
    course and all good aspects are being sustained and deepened.
"For reforms to succeed, however, they need to be 
    constantly monitored and necessary adjustments made from time to 
    time.
"Our stance on anti-corruption remains on course; the 
    approach may be modified for more effective and smoother 
    operation."
The meeting that started at noon was also attended by former 
    Vice President Alex Ekwueme, Barnabas Gemade, Kassim Ibrahim 
    Usman.
Ken Nnamani, Pius Anyim Pius, Aminu Masari, Senate President 
    David Mark and Speaker Dimeji Bankole among others.
Deputy National chairman (South) of the party (PDP) Chief 
    Olabode George said Olusegun Obasanjo remaind the Chairman Board of 
    Trustee (BOT) notwithstanding the forthcoming convention.
However Rimi declared that Obasanjo did 
    not deserve to continue as BOT chairman 
    became according to him, Obasanjo has "destroyed the 
    party" and "done a lot of filthy things."
