Committee members disagree over Adedibu’s funeral
From Oseheye Okwuofu, and Bisi Oladele,Ibadan
Disagreement among members of the funeral committee for 
    prominent politician and Ashipa Olubadan of Ibadan, Chief Lamidi 
    Ariyibi Adedibu, may mar the eight-day fidau = 
    Islamic ritual of prayers or ceremonies held in honour of deceased 
    members, and which can last several days (ew) 
    prayer for the deceased, scheduled for tomorrow.
The committee’s meeting on the funeral programme ended in a 
    deadlock yesterday as members engaged in altercations.
The disagreement, it was gathered, was between the late 
    Adedibu’s Personal Assistant, Alhaji Hazeem Gbolarumi, and some 
    members of the committee.
Besides Gbolarumi, other members of the committee, headed by the 
    Deputy Governor, Hon. Taofeek Arapaja, include Secretary to 
    the State Government (SSG), Chief Olayiwola Olakojo, Dr. 
    Saka Balogun, Hon. Folake Olunloyo- Oshinowo and Senator 
    Kamorudeen Adedibu.
Gbolarumi however denied the allegation, saying "we only 
    disagreed to agree and we are working towards a common 
    goal."
It was gathered that the 15-member committee had been divided 
    into sub-committees.
The committee’s recommendations are subject to the approval of 
    Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala who is being 
    expected back home from a trip to Paris with President Umar Musa 
    Yar’Adua.
Gbolarumi, in a telephone interview, confirmed that the 
    committee members disagreed on the funeral programme.
He said: "We did not fight. But you cannot rule out 
    disagreement on things like these. What happened is that some 
    people wanted some things to go up; others said no, let them go 
    down. We held our meeting today (yesterday) to finalise the whole 
    programme; we had to disagree because some were not okay and so, 
    there were some disagreements.
"It is not true at all that we fought at our meeting.
How can that happen? Whatever we agree upon will still be 
    subjected to the approval of the Governor, Otunba Christopher 
    Alao-Akala."
According to him, members of the committee are still waiting for 
    the governor for his final say on the funeral programme.
An Ibadan High Court yesterday joined the executor of the late 
    Adedibu’s will in a suit challenging the destruction of the 
    property of Managing Director, Pelly Foam Limited 
     Mr. Dapo Davies in 2006.
Justice A.L. Akintola granted the prayer of Davies 
    to substitute the late Adedibu’s name with that of the executor of 
    his will.
Davies dragged Mr. Peter Asha, Chairman of King Zion 
    Ventures, one of the principal officers in his company, Sola 
    Oyin-Adejobi, Akeem Adebayo (deceased) and King Zion Venture to 
    court over the destruction of his property, worth N1 billion ,by 
    hoodlums suspected to be loyal to the late Adedibu.
But the hurdle before Davies is to find the name of the executor 
    before July 21, to present it in 
    his application to the court at its next sitting.
Conflicting reports have been emanating from the late 
    politician’s children and associates on whether he left a will or 
    died intestate.
While one of his children, Dauda, claimed that he left no will, 
    others said he did.
At the resumed hearing of the suit yesterday, Davies’ counsel, 
    Mr. E.A Adesuyi, told the court 
    that in view of the death of Adedibu, he would like to amend the 
    case document to reflect the executor of the late Adedibu’s 
    will.
Justice Akintola adjourned suit till July 21 for further 
    hearing.
