President under pressure to terminate $8.3b 
    contract with Chinese firm
From Yusuf Alli, Managing Editor (Northern Operation)
President Umaru Yar’Adua is under pressure to terminate an 
    $8.3billion rail modernisation contract sealed by his 
    predecessor’s administration with a Chinese company, The Nation has 
    learnt.
The President is caught between advisers in government prodding 
    him to pull the brakes on the deal and those urging restraint.
But Chinese President Hu Jingtao has weighed in, appealing to 
    Yar’Adua to retain the contract.
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, in October 
    2006, awarded the railway modernisation project to the China Civil 
    Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). The consultancy 
    component of the contract, worth about $240million, was awarded to 
    Technics Engineering Architecting Marketing Nigeria Limited 
    (TEAM).
A document obtained from the Budget Monitoring and Price 
    Intelligence Unit (BMPIU) of the Presidency shows that the project 
    involves the survey, design, construction and maintenance of 1,315 
    kilometres of double-track standard gauge rail line from Lagos to 
    Kano.
Although the CCECC initially presented a bill of $15.411billion for the project, the contract cost was revised to 
    $8.3billion by the BMPIU.
But some top officials of the Yar’Adua administration have 
    expressed concern over the project cost and the manner in which the 
    contract was awarded by the former administration. While some 
    alleged that the contract was inflated to $8.3billion from 
    $5 .billion, some others claimed 
    that due process was sidelined.
There is however another view among technocrats, including the 
    TEAM consultants, that the cost is comparable to such a project in 
    any part of the world.
The Nation learnt yesterday that the project has caused a 
    division in the Yar’Adua’s government as some ministers want the 
    contract revoked; whereas others – notably top officials of the 
    Federal Ministry of Transportation and the Nigerian Railway 
    Corporation management – have urged restraint. Finance Minister 
    Shamsudeen Usman and his Transportation counterpart, Mrs. 
    Diezani Allison-Madueke, are in the vanguard of those pushing for 
    termination of the contract.
The controversy had prompted President Yar’Adua to raise an 
    11-man Presidential Committee on Funding of the Railway 
    Modernisation Project. Our correspondent learnt that the panel, 
    headed by the Minister of Finance, had recommended many options to 
    the President – including contract termination.
Other options recommended by the committee, according to a 
    Presidency document, included: reducing the scope of the contract 
    to single track, prolonging the contract duration from four to 
    seven years, phased implementation of the project to reduce the 
    financial burden on government, and sticking to the initial terms 
    of the contract on funding.
A source at the Presidency said: "Since the committee 
    submitted its report in January, there has been intense pressure on 
    the President to terminate the contract. Left to Yar’Adua, he wants 
    to continue with the project; when the presidential committee on 
    funding submitted its report, he took exception to the 
    recommendation that the contract should be terminated. But there 
    has been intense lobbying by some powerful groups for contract 
    termination.
"In the midst of the lobbying, the Ministry of Justice 
    presented a brief to the President that there was no clause for 
    termination of the contract in the agreement signed by a 
    Presidential Negotiation Committee headed by then Private Secretary 
    to ex-President Obasanjo, Mr. Stephen Orosanye. But the 
    Minister of Transportation has countered that Clause 15.5 in 
    the contract made provision for termination."
The lobby groups are said to be proposing a $2billion 
    rehabilitation scheme for the railway, which would largely be 
    awarded as contract patronage of party loyalists.
Presidency sources disclosed that Chinese President Jingtao has 
    written a letter to his Nigerian counterpart, appealing that the 
    contract be retained.
One source said: "The contract is assuming a diplomatic 
    dimension. This is the first time that the Chinese President would 
    interfere in a business matter in Nigeria. You can imagine the 
    pressure on the President. His predecessor, Obasanjo, is also 
    unhappy that a project he conceived is about to be 
    terminated."
Contacted on what informed the letter from the Chinese 
    president, the Chief Coordinator of CCECC, Shi Hongbing, told our 
    correspondent: "I cannot talk to you on the issue; I am out of 
    the country."
Railway workers yesterday in Lagos vowed to resist further 
    cut-back on the corporation’s workforce, which has already been 
    trimmed to 6,514 from 42,000.
The president of the NRC chapter of the Senior Staff Association 
    of Communications, Transport and Corporations (SSACTAC), Mr. 
    Abiodun Lesi, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that 
    repositioning the company required structural reforms; not further 
    staff downsizing.
Lesi was reacting to allegations that the Federal Government has 
    concluded plans to sack about 1,000 workers of the corporation. He 
    said any further staff retrenchment would be unacceptable.
