Nigerians in Diaspora to vote in 2011, says Iwu
THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has hinted 
    on the possibility of extending voting rights to Nigerians living 
    abroad in the next general election, in deference to a recent court 
    decision. Before now, it has not been possible for Nigerians in 
    Diaspora to vote in the country's democratic process.
While receiving a delegation from Angola led by that 
    country's Vice Minister for Territorial Administration and 
    Electoral Matters, Edeltrudes Costa in Abuja yesterday, INEC 
    Chairman, Prof. Maurice Iwu, said the consideration followed 
    a recent court pronouncement in Nigeria on the need to give 
    Nigerians outside the country the right to participate in the 
    country's electoral process.
Costa said his team was at the Commission to understudy how 
    Nigeria conducted the 2007 elections that produced President Umaru 
    Musa Yar'Adua, noting that Angola was also desirous of having 
    such a successful transition.
The INEC chief told his visitors that certain legal 
    considerations forced the Commission to stop electronic voting 
    because INEC did not want to play into the hands of mischief makers 
    who were looking for an opportunity to foment trouble. But 
    nevertheless, he said, the commission had been mandated to take 
    steps towards enabling Nigerians in the Diaspora to participate in 
    future elections, adding that INEC was already studying how to 
    implement the directive.
According to him, although violence has been associated with 
    elections, excessive use of money in politics as well as a wrong 
    mindset, which makes politicians see elections as a do- 
    or- die affair are issues that 
    still confront the conduct of polls in the country. He said 
    however, that appreciable progress has been made by INEC since the 
    last general elections in 2007.
For instance, according to him, the Commission has moved away 
    from the former practice in which voter's registration was 
    done periodically and has now put in place a system of interactive 
    electronic voter registration. Explaining that with the new 
    arrangement, voter registration is now continuous, Iwu said the 
    Commission would soon publish a list of those who registered in 
    2008 as required by law.
In a bid to deal with the major challenges confronting the 
    smooth conduct of elections in the country, Iwu said INEC had been 
    spending more money on the education of voters and politicians 
    themselves. He said the problem militating against the electoral 
    process would be solved by the time internal democracy was 
    institutionalised in the parties.
According to Iwu, because the problem would be further reduced 
    to a mere 25 per cent if adequate preparations are made before the 
    main election. INEC has taken steps to ensure that adequate 
    preparations were made ahead of the next elections.
Earlier, Costa had told the INEC chairman that his delegation 
    was in Nigeria to avail itself of useful ideas as it prepares for 
    its local administration elections.
