Nigeria, a major polio virus carrier - Turai
Nigeria remains the only polio endemic country in Africa and one 
    of four remaining polio endemic countries globally. The First Lady 
    of Nigeria, Hajia Turai Umar Yar’adua made this statement when she 
    had interactive meeting with some wives of Governors, on'How to Improve Maternal and Child Health and 
    Eradication of Polio in Nigeria, 
    in her office today.
Hajia Turai averred that health is on the priority list of this 
    administration, hence the rationale for government huge investment 
    on health sector, particularly on immunization activities. This 
    meeting came when President Umar Yar’adua promised to support polio 
    eradication out of Nigeria by the end of 2009.
She described poor performance of health care system, 
    particularly at the local level, as one of the major reasons many 
    children in the country do not have access to health services.
The First Lady urged the Governors’ 
    Wives to rally round all stakeholders, government and 
    developmental partners, in their bids to immunize children against 
    polio and other vaccine preventable diseases. With this 
     Nigeria can meet new global target of 
    interrupting the wild polio virus from Nigeria by 2009.
Speaking at the meeting, the Executive Director of National 
    Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Titilola 
    .I. Koleoso- Adelekan said 
    currently, fifteen states are endemic with Wild Polio Virus 
    , these are all the states in the 
    North West (Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, Kebbi, Jigawa, Sokoto and 
    Zamfara States); four states in North East i.e. 
    Borno, Bauchi, Gombe and Yobe; two in the North Central i.e. FCT and Niger as well as Enugu and Oyo states from 
    Southern parts.
She said the First Lady and wives of the Governors could 
    champion for health particularly in the following areas 
    ; advocacy to State and LGA Executives 
    and Policy 
    Makers, 
    Media Campaigns, 
    Community 
    Sensitization and 
    Mobilization.
Mrs. Koleoso-Adelekan disclosed that incidences of very 
    low immunization coverage continue to sustain high occurrence and 
    out breaks of vaccine 
    Preventable 
    Diseases and 
    Wild 
    Polio Virus. She said 
    there is upsurge in the number of WPV cases, as at Friday, 25th of 
    July there are 508 WPV cases reported in 22 
    states (less than 200 cases were reported during the same period 
    last year).
Minister of Health, Dr. Hassan Lawal said Nigeria is one 
    of the major carriers of polio virus, but with support of 
    Wives of State Governors, who are 
    close to the grassroots, the virus will efface. He called on the 
    State Governments to allocate available funds to the health sector, 
    which is quite minimal.
In attendance were Wives of 
    Governors from Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Sokoto and 
    Zamfara States as well as development partners.
