Senate urges Yar’Adua to intervene in Zimbabwe’s poll 
    crisis
From Augustine Ehikioya, Abuja
The Senate yesterday urged President Uma-ru Musa Yar'Adua 
    to join hands with the United Nations (UN), African Union (AU) and 
    other world leaders to encourage President Robert Mugabe to step 
    down.
While urging Yar'Adua to play a leading role to ensure that 
    the crisis does not degenerate into a civil war, the Senate also 
    called on the President to prevail on the Zimbabwean Government and 
    all political actors to respect the wishes of the people.
It made these resolutions during a motion on the 
    Crisis in Zimbabwe moved by 
    Senator Nimi Barigha-Amange.
Barigha-Amange pointed out that Nigeria played a key role in the 
    independence of Southern African countries and should not fold its 
    hands and watch the situation in Zimbabwe degenerate.
While maintaining that over 200,000 Nigerians are residing in 
    Zimbabwe, he said Nigeria as the chairman of the Human Rights organ 
    of the United Nations must support the UN Secretary General's 
    call for postponement of the election due to the level of violence 
    and intimidation in the country.
According to him, the crisis in Zimbabwe is assuming frightening 
    dimension and that Nigeria has to join hands with African countries 
    and the world to call for a free and fair election.
Zimbabwe is billed to hold presidential re-run on Friday.
Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba said: "What is happening in 
    Zimbabwe infringes on human rights. Human rights are an 
    international issue. It would be very sad for us to watch human 
    rights dissipate in Zimbabwe. We have over 200,000 Nigerians in 
    Zimbabwe."
Senator Julius Ucha said: "The motion is timely. It is 
    unfortunate that the election of two months ago is still dragging. 
    The heads of state in Africa have been watching passively as if 
    nothing is happening."
The bill to appropriate N79.4 billion to the Niger Delta 
    Development Commission (NDDC) was stood down yesterday as senators 
    wanted to have gazetted copy of the budget before its 
    consideration.
