Ekiti Deputy Speaker Adeoti released
Deputy Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly Saliu 
    Adeoti, who was arrested by the police on Tuesday, has been 
    released. He was released by the police in Abuja at about 5:30 
    p.m., it was learnt.
Adeoti had earlier been arrested in Ado-Ekiti on Monday by men 
    of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) over his alleged role in 
    the torching of the office of the Independent National Electoral 
    Commission (INEC) in Ido-Osi during the April 25 controversial 
    rerun governorship election.
But he was released on bail after being detained for some hours 
    and asked to return to the Headquarters of the State Police Command 
    the next day.
When he did, he was whisked to Abuja on Tuesday allegedly on the 
    orders of the Inspector- 
    General of Police (IG) Mike Okiro.
Adeoti, who spoke with The Nation, shortly 
    before his release, said he was interrogated on what he knew about 
    the burning of Ido/Osi INEC office.
Speaking on Adeoti’s release, the Director of Communications and 
    Strategy of the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation, Yemi 
    Adaramodu, said: "We had always insisted that if there is 
    anything against Adeoti, he should be charged to court instead of 
    the police falling into the PDP scheme to force him out of 
    circulation. His release is hailed and should be unconditional. The 
    PDP has failed again. We urge the police to go after PDP thugs who 
    tortured observers and later burnt the INEC office to cover their 
    poll robbery."
But before Adeoti breathe the air of freedom, the Action 
    Congress (AC) and the Ekiti Parapo, North Carolina, United States 
    condemned his arrest.
The AC said his arrest, in spite of a subsisting court order 
    restraining the police from such an action, is a huge setback for 
    President Umaru Yar'Adua’s rule of law mantra.
In a statement issued in Lagos yesterday by its National 
    Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the party also said the 
    motive for the arrest is sinister - to put away one of AC’s 13 
    lawmakers in the House of Assembly to upset the AC/PDP parity and 
    give the ruling party a leverage to pass the impending list of 
    Governor Segun Oni’s Commissioner-nominees.
"This is the only reason that the government would look the 
    other way as its rule of law mantra is being trampled upon by a 
    desperate ruling party, which is capitalising on its unfettered 
    access to the ever-malleable security agencies.
"The Federal High Court in Ado Ekiti has issued a 
    subsisting injunction against Adeoti’s arrest. But that is not 
    enough to deter a rampaging and lawless ruling party, bent on 
    employing all dirty tricks to achieve its objective of annihilating 
    the opposition,’’ AC said.
The North Carolina chapter of Ekiti Parapo said Adeoti was 
    arrested over flimsy allegations.
The group condemned Okiro for allegedly acting a PDP script 
    instead of remaining neutral.
A statement signed by its President, Mr. Segun Ajibulu, 
    said it is rather shameful that until recently, no arrests had been 
    made regarding the N250 million bribe even though the names of the 
    perpetrators are known.
His words: "It is obvious that the IG has become 
    manipulated by PDP, and has also caused tension in the House. This 
    manipulation is intended to provide leverage over the opposition in 
    the House where each party has an equal number of representatives 
    with 13 members each.
"With all this controversy and corruption, we wonder why 
    there have been no arrests for the ballot-snatching at Ikole; the 
    burning of the ballot box at Ijero; and all the atrocities 
    committed by the known people at Ido-Osi. Someone was shot and 
    killed. Others were amputated. But because of deceit and 
    corruption, none of this dishonest and dishonourable behaviour 
    qualifies for investigation because the perpetrators are the'PAWA people'."
