Curb area boys manace! Mainland residents demand
The menace that area boys and government touts constitute to the 
    society was in sharp focus at the town hall meeting by the Lagos 
    State House of Assembly held for residents of Mainland 
    constituencies 1 and II at Hoarse Methodist Memorial Cathedral 
    Hall, Yaba.
A resident Prince Soji Kabiawo said that the menace of social 
    miscreants popularly referred to as area boys was too much in the 
    area and called for urgent intervention of the Assembly. 
    Contributing, Mrs Ajoke Olawuye also lamented that it was difficult 
    to do things in the area without one form of harassment or the 
    other.
While Mr Taiwo Obashola representative of the Rector, Mr 
    Olubunmi Owoso, Yaba College of Technology called on the Assembly 
    to enact a law to stem the menace of local government touts who 
    posed as traffic control officials in the area. He continued that 
    the touts posed as traffic experts as they stayed on the road in 
    the guise of directing traffic. Adding that, they lacked training 
    in traffic laws.
According to him "If you slow down they ask question. If 
    you are fast they ask questions. "The next thing they do is to 
    enter your vehicle and ask you to drive down to the council over 
    unspecified traffic offences he said. He 
    called on the Assembly to enact a law to take care of their menace 
    as they were "causing a lot of embarrassment" in the 
    area.
The residents also asked the government to improve social 
    amenities and create employment opportunities for the youth in the 
    area.
Mr Tom Ayakri, representative of Queens College said that the 
    school was cut off from water supply and pleaded that they be 
    linked up to the state water corporation. He also pleaded that 
    refuse disposal services be extended to the school.
Residents of Ebute whose shanties were spreading towards the 
    third mainland bridge also appealed to the state government to have 
    to mercy and not carry out the proposed demolition of the shanties. 
    Other demands include road rehabilitation at Abule Ijesha, Rice 
    Road and other roads in the areas as well as construction of 
    drainages to stop flooding during the rainy season.
The residents also demanded that the menace of estate agents who 
    defrauded unsuspecting accommodation seekers be checked. They also 
    demanded for construction of pedestrian bridge, stoppage of street 
    trading, and urgent relocation of saw millers to permanent site, 
    among others.
Earlier in his address, Speaker of the Lagos State House of 
    Assembly, Mr Adeyemi Ikuforji explained to the constituents the 
    role of the legislature in the a democratic dispensation.
Ikuforiji said that the town hall meeting was organized to 
    provide an avenue for constituents to channel their actual need so 
    that it can be communicated to the executive arm to ensure projects 
    executed were in line with the people’s needs.
"The legislature is not the arm of government that 
    implements government policies and programmes but it is in position 
    to offer the executive arm of government the information that could 
    lead to a considerable reduction in poverty level among our 
    constituents," he said.
Giving the welcome address, Mr Jide Jimoh, chairman of Yaba 
    Local Council Development Authority, commended the Assembly for 
    taking the initiative which was the first in the nation.
Jimoh said that governance had gone beyond a level where 
    politicians "sat in their offices" to form policies for 
    the people they represent. He said that laws were not made in a 
    "vacuum" and that the trend has changed with the people 
    now wanting to know how they were governed.
