Obama: African Leaders Must End Tyranny, 
    Corruption
United States President Barack Obama who yesterday in Ghana 
    declared he has "the blood of Africa within me", warned 
    that forces of tyranny and corruption must yield if Africa is to 
    achieve its promise.
Obama stated this when he addressed Members of Parliament in 
    Accra, as part of his long- 
    anticipated first official visit to Africa, after his 
    inauguration on January 20. The speech, which was seen by 
    journalists via satellite located at the United States Embassy in 
    Abuja; commenced at 12.45 Ghanaian time. It was a wake-up 
    call to African nations that have been battling challenges of bad 
    governance and recurring conflicts.
He warned that the incessant'failed' 
    elections and the attendant security issues that come with not 
    conducting free and fair elections will have to stop in Africa as 
    they will not bring about “more prosperous, more stable and more 
    successful” continent.
Dusting his campaign slogan "Yes you can," Obama also 
    called upon African societies to seize opportunities for peace, 
    democracy and prosperity.
"This is a new moment of great promise. To realise 
    that promise, we must first recognise a fundamental truth that you 
    have given life to in Ghana: Development depends upon good 
    governance. That is the ingredient which has been missing in far 
    too many places, for far too long. That is the change that can 
    unlock Africa's potential."
He continues: “As we provide support, I have directed my 
    administration to give greater attention to corruption… People 
    everywhere should have the right to start a business or get an 
    education without paying a bribe. We have the responsibility to 
    support those who act responsibly and isolate those who don’t, and 
    that is exactly what America will do.”
The son of a white woman from Kansas and a black goat 
    herder-turned-academic from Kenya, Obama delivered an unsentimental 
    account of squandered opportunities in post-colonial Africa. 
    America's first black president spoke with a bluntness that 
    perhaps could only come from a member of Africa's extended 
    family.
"No country is going to create wealth if its leaders 
    exploit the economy to enrich themselves, or if police can be 
    bought off by drug traffickers.
"No business wants to invest in a place where the 
    government skims 20 percent off the top, or the head of the Port 
    Authority is corrupt. No person wants to live in a society where 
    the rule of law gives way to the rule of brutality and 
    bribery.
"That is not democracy, that is tyranny, even if 
    occasionally you sprinkle an election in there," he 
    said, "and now is the time for that style of governance 
    to end." He added: "Africa doesn't 
    need strongmen, it needs strong institutions 
    . "
Obama was on a 21-hour visit to the West African nation to 
    highlight that country's democratic tradition and engagement 
    with the West. His visit, his first to sub-Saharan Africa as 
    president, was greeted as a "spiritual reunion" Saturday 
    by Ghanaian legislators.
People lined the streets, many waving at every vehicle of 
    Obama's motorcade as it headed toward a meeting at Osu Castle, 
    the storied coastline presidential state house, before his speech 
    to Parliament. "Ghana loves you," said a billboard. He 
    also visited a hospital and a one-time slave trading post, joined 
    by his wife, Michelle, a great-great grand-daughter of slaves.
Obama spoke of the indignities visited upon Africans from the 
    era of European rule. He said his grandfather, a cook for the 
    British in Kenya, was called "boy" by his employers for 
    much of his life despite his being a respected village elder. He 
    said it was a time of artificial borders and unfair trade.
But he said the West is not to blame "for the 
    destruction of the Zimbabwean economy over the last decade, or wars 
    in which children are enlisted as combatants." Nor for 
    the corruption that is a daily fact of life for many, he said.
"Africa is not the crude caricature of a continent 
    at perpetual war," he said. Yet for "far 
    too many Africans, conflict is a part of life, as constant as the 
    sun. There are wars over land and wars over resources. And it is 
    still far too easy for those without conscience to manipulate whole 
    communities into fighting among faiths and tribes.
"These conflicts are a millstone around 
    Africa's neck," he said. Obama started his day 
    with typical calm. Wearing a gray T-shirt and gym pants, he walked 
    through the lobby of his hotel almost unnoticed at 7:30 a.m. local time on his way to the downstairs gym for a 
    workout.
A short time later, his motorcade left the hotel, passed under 
    hovering military helicopters and arrived for a delayed welcome 
    ceremony with Ghanaian President John Atta Mills.
Obama avoided scheduling large public events, wishing to keep 
    emotions in check in a singular moment in African-American 
    diplomacy.
The president pledged America's partnership in 
    Africa's growth. Specifically, he said he would make sure 
    U.S. aid gets to the people who need it most, such as 
    farmers and entrepreneurs, not Western consultants and 
    administrators.
