Halliburton: Aondoakaa writes NBA President on probe 
    status
The Federal Government is yet to identify Nigerians who 
    benefited from the $180million Halliburton bribery scandal.
The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of 
    Justice, Mr. Michael Aondoakaa (SAN) made the clarification 
    in a letter to the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), 
    Chief Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), on the status of the ongoing 
    probe into the scam.
In the letter, which was exclusively obtained by The 
    Nation, the AGF said Nigeria is exploring Mutual Legal 
    Assistance Treaty with the United States and Switzerland to unmask 
    the bribe-takers.
The letter reads: "I wish to draw your esteem attention to 
    the above subject and to intimate you on the efforts being made by 
    the Federal Government of Nigeria to obtain relevant information 
    about the involvement of Nigerians in the Halliburton bribery 
    scandal.
"It will be recalled that the Federal Government recently 
    commenced investigation into a case of suspected criminal 
    conspiracy among Nigerian government officials, other Nigerians, 
    all yet to be identified and foreign nationals, to obtain a 
    contract for construction of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) facilities 
    in exchange for gratifications.
"The investigation evolved from the case of United States 
    of America v Stanley-Case No. 4: 08-cr-00597-1, US District 
    Court for the Southern District of Texas, as a result of the 
    conviction of one Albert Stanley Jackson, a US citizen resident in 
    Houston, Texas for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 
    (FCPA).
"According to the Court records, on the 3rd of September, 
    2008, Stanley, a former officer and director of Kellogg, Brown and 
    Root, Inc, a global engineering and construction services company 
    based in Houston, Texas, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate 
    the FCPA in connection with a scheme to bribe Nigerian government 
    officials in order to obtain Engineering, Procurement, and 
    Construction contracts worth over US$6billion.
"By pleading guilty to the charges, Mr. Stanley 
    acknowledged that he and his co-conspirators wilfully agreed to 
    make improper payments to Nigerian officials to ensure support that 
    the Joint Venture obtain and retain contracts in connection with 
    the LNG project. Mr. Stanley was sentenced to seven years in 
    prison in addition to payment of restitution in the amount of 
    US$250,000.
"Although the court records that could reveal the identity 
    of the Nigerians involved in the bribery scandal is yet to be 
    de-classified by the US Courts, the Federal Government is 
    determined to prosecute all the participants in this case of 
    corruption wherever they may be located, to the full extent of the 
    Nigerian law.
"In order to ensure that evidence necessary to sustain the 
    charge is obtained, a request for mutual legal assistance in 
    criminal matters has been made to the US Attorney-General and the 
    Government of Switzerland.
"Mr. President has also constituted an Investigation 
    Panel comprising the Director-General of State Security Services 
    (SSS), Director-General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), and 
    the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) 
    with the Inspector-General of Police (IG) as Chairman.
"Government expects to receive the necessary cooperation 
    from the various countries whose assistance has been sought. It is 
    also our hope that the Investigation Panel will be able to uncover 
    the evidence required to prosecute those involved in the bribery 
    scandal.
"It has become pertinent to inform you of these 
    developments and to solicit your support as well as that of the Bar 
    in complementing the efforts so far made by the Government. This is 
    in view of the realisation that the Bar under your able leadership 
    can play a key role in complementing and supporting ongoing efforts 
    to rid our society of corruption."
It was learnt that the government decided to reach out to the 
    NBA leadership to prevail on its members for understanding when the 
    list of the bribe-takers is released.
The AGF, who also spoke with The Nation, said 
    the government would collaborate with the NBA on the probe.
Aondoakaa said: "I have written officially to the NBA 
    President who has acknowledged it for collaboration because they 
    have to give us all the assistance.
"This is something that is very germane and when we 
    gathered this evidence, we need their support. In as much as the 
    lawyers need to make their fees, there is the need to take national 
    interest into consideration. And the response of the NBA President 
    is very cordial."
Also yesterday, the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) urged the 
    Okiro-led panel not to compromise.
The party, in a statement signed by its National Publicity 
    Secretary Emma Eneukwu, said it learnt that efforts by the panel to 
    get the list of Nigerian officials involved in the bribe have been 
    futile
ANPP said though, the US about a month ago, pledged to allow the 
    panel access to some documents that might hasten its work, the 
    party, however, said it was doubtful if the panel followed the 
    right step in getting the documents.
The party advised President Umaru Yar'Adua to compel the 
    Okiro-led panel to get the documents from US at all costs.
It said former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former Head of 
    State General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd) under whose tenure the 
    scam was perpetrated should be interrogated by the panel.
