Lagos pays N26m gratuities to 40 retirees
Lagos State government yesterday disbursed N26 million 
    gratuities to 40 retirees of the state Printing Corporation. They 
    had been owed since 2000.
Speaking during the presentation of cheques to the 
    beneficiaries, Commissioner for Information Opeyemi Bamidele said 
    the gesture was a demonstration of the government’s commitment to 
    delivering the benefits of democracy to the people.
Besides, he said it would assure those in service that they 
    would be taken care whenever they retire.
The Head of Service, Mr. Yakubu Balogun, said the 
    government was determined to use every policy and programme as a 
    weapon to fight poverty.
His words: "By this singular opportunity, the state 
    government has restored the retiree’s dignity not only as public 
    servants but as citizens and head of families who can with pride 
    fulfil their financial and other obligations to their 
    dependents.
"To the deceased pensioners, there cannot be a more 
    befitting honour to their memory than the acknowledgement of their 
    supreme services and contribution to the services of the 
    state."
Also yesterday, the government presented N98, 715, 400.00 
    million bursary allowances to 3, 326 indigene students for the 
    2008/09 session.
Presenting the cheques to the awardees, the Special Adviser to 
    the Governor on Education, Dr. Elijah Adewale, said the 
    bursary was introduced to encourage the youths to attain academic 
    excellence.
According to him, the state government had spent over N319 
    million on bursaries. Over N562 million has also been spent on 
    local and foreign scholarships in the last two years, he added.
Adewale urged the people to pay their taxes to encourage the 
    Governor Babatunde Fashola (SAN) administration to improve their 
    lives.
Secretary of the Scholarship Board Mrs. Kudirat Odewale 
    urged the private sector to assist government in giving scholarship 
    to deserving students.
She also lent her voice to the call on the people to pay their 
    taxes.
"Payment of our taxes is very important as it is the only 
    way for government to have enough money to provide necessary 
    services to the people, including payment of bursary and award of 
    scholarship," Mrs Odewale said.
