MSMSE :Lagos canvasses for change in funding 
    policy
The Lagos State Government has called for the evolution of a new 
    framework on the funding policy of Micro, Small and Medium Scale 
    Enterprises (MSMSEs) in the country.
Speaking at the commencement of a one-day stakeholders forum on 
    funding model for MSMSE, at Ikeja on Tuesday, the Lagos State 
    Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Mr. Adeniye Oyemade, 
    said the development of a realistic and sustainable policy 
    framework for funding had become necessary if the sector must 
    grow.
He observed that despite the existing credit schemes for Micro, 
    Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMSE), the problem of easy 
    access to institutional credit was still a problem to the 
    development of the sector.
Oyemade told the gathering which comprises of representatives 
    from the banking sectors and government officials, that lack of 
    such framework had remained unaddressed by the existing policies 
    and legislation.
According to him, "Despite the existing credit schemes 
    which have been dogged with various inadequacies, the problems of 
    easy access to institutional credit still bellies the development 
    of MSMSE.
"I am therefore of the view that this forum would create 
    the opportunity for the evolution of a framework on funding policy 
    for MSMSE, which would serve as the best option for accessibility 
    to institutional financing.
"By organising this form, 
    the state government is taking the lead in effort to foster 
    interaction amongst identified stakeholders by playing the role of 
    motivator and catalyst to determine the direction for formulation 
    of broad objectives that would serve as building blocks 
    fro development of 
    framework."
Delivering the keynote address, the Permanent Secretary to the 
    Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Wale Raji, noted that 
    such framework should urgently be evolved as the sector has the 
    potential for high job creation.
Raji said full exploitation of the sub-sector’s potential 
    required joint efforts to tackle the problem and proffer 
    solution.
"Poverty has been identified as a critical problem whose 
    eradication can only be achieved through a well thought out, 
    properly articulated and realistic strategies," he said.
The Permanent Secretary said that one of the greatest challenges 
    of policy formulation is its design, followed by sequencing.
"For a government that sincerely wants to overcome these 
    challenges and have policies for implementation that enjoy the 
    buy-in of all stakeholders, both formulators and operators need to 
    work hand-in-hand in order to have meaningful execution of the 
    guidelines in the policy framework," he said.
The forum, which was chaired by the state Commissioner for 
    Establishment and Training, Mr. Jide Sanwoolu, also 
    attracted the Special Adviser to the Governor for Commerce and 
    Industry, Mrs. Olusola Aworu, corporate organisations, 
    representatives of Nigeria Economic Summit Group, among others.
