Court bars Yar'Adua from suing for 
    defamation
A Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court yesterday barred 
    President Umaru Yar'Adua from suing till he leaves office.
The court gave the ruling while sitting in an appellate capacity 
    in a criminal defamation suit instituted against the Leadership 
    Newspapers Group by the President.
The court adjourned the case indefinitely until the President 
    would no longer enjoy the immunity of his office.
The newspaper had, in one of its weekend titles of November 8, 
    2008, reported that the President was ill.
The President, however, slammed a five-count charge against the 
    Chairman/Editor-in-Chief, Sam Nda-Isaiah; Abdul-Razaq Bello 
    (Editor, Daily), Lara Olugbemi (Weekend Editor) and Simon 
    Imobo-Tswam (reporter), before a Chief Magistrate Court, Abuja.
According to the First Information Report (FIR), the accused 
    allegedly conspired to indulge in illegal act, defamation of 
    character, injurious falsehood, painting or engraving matter known 
    to be defamatory and sales of painted or engraved materials 
    containing defamatory matters.
The Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Salihu Aliyu said the 
    offences are punishable under Sections 79, 392, 393, 394 and 395 of 
    the Penal Code Cap 532 Laws of the Federation.
Protests from the company that the President cannot sue while 
    still in office was thrown out by the court, hence the appeal.
However, a two-member panel of the appellate court, led by 
    Justice Abubakar Talba, yesterday ruled that the Chief Magistrate, 
    Sunday Ochimana, erred in law when he refused to adjourn the case 
    sine die, even when it was obvious that there is 
    an infringement on the rights of the accused persons as enshrined 
    in section 36 (5) and (6) of the 1999 Constitution.
Allowing the appeal, he set aside the ruling of the chief 
    magistrate.
Justice Talba, who read the ruling, said it is the duty of the 
    court when interpreting the constitution to adopt a literal 
    interpretation; they must be read in their best and ordinary 
    meaning.
"Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution has undergone intense 
    scrutiny by superior courts in the country and from the word used 
    by the framers of S. 308, it is clear that that it is 
    intended to confer absolute immunity without barring them from 
    enforcing their fundamental human rights," he added.
He cited the cases of Tinubu V. IMB Securities, in the 
    Court of Appeal and Mediatech V. Lam Adesina, where the 
    court held that the respondent was shielded from prosecution.
By the provision of Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution, the 
    court held that the President is not compellable as a witness and 
    cannot waive the immunity conferred on him.
It further held that the constitution had debarred the accused 
    persons of their fundamental rights as contained in S. 36 of 
    the constitution, as they are incapacitated in calling the 
    President as a witness.
"By virtue of S. 36 [D] of the constitution, an 
    accused person has the right to call all witnesses. The same person 
    do not specify from which angle the witness should come from. Now 
    that the Accused cannot secure that the issue of fair hearing comes 
    into play'.
Justice Talba said: "We cannot but agree that the Chief 
    Magistrate erred in law when he ruled otherwise, especially 
    concerning the provision of S. 36 of the constitution of the 
    Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Chief Magistrate was wrong when he 
    refused to adjourn the case sine die.
"There is merit in this appeal and the ruling of the chief 
    magistrate is set aside. This case is set aside 
    sine-die".
