Tension at town hall meeting as CDA chairman, accuses LCDA 
    Chairman
The town hall meeting held at Alimosho for residents would have 
    degenerated into confusion if not for the prompt intervention of 
    the Speaker, Rt. Hon Adeyemi Ikuforiji. Tempers rose when 
    Mrs Janet Akinyemi, Chairman, CDA Shagari Estate accused 
    Mosan/Okunola LCDA Chairman, Hon. Rasheed Abiodun Mafe of 
    not carrying CDA's and CDC's in the area along. This was 
    countered by a serious protest by supporters of Mafe.
Her words: “Our own chairman is the problem we have in 
    Mosan-Okunola, because he has not been carrying us along in all he 
    has been doing. He has not done anything tangible in the area and 
    ever since he became the chairman, no development had taken 
    place.
“Our LCDA ought to have developed like other local governments 
    and local councils in the state, but because our chairman has 
    neglected the people in the council, no development has taken 
    place, he has been running a one-man show government”.
While Adeyemi was still speaking, a group of women in the 
    uniformed attire known as aso ebi rushed 
    out to attack her claiming that all she was saying was nothing but 
    lies. They claimed that she was sponsored by a member of the House 
    of Assembly, Onibiyo Adelabu representing Alimosho Constituency I, 
    to come and tarnish the Chairman’s image.
It took the intervention of the Speaker to bring the situation 
    under control, as Ikuforiji had to leave his seat on the high table 
    to prevail on the women who had almost manhandled Adeyemi.
Reacting, Mosan-Okunola Local Council Development Area, 
    Chairman, Abiodun Mafe expressed displeasure at Adeyemi’s 
    utterances. He explained that all what she uttered while she was 
    speaking was nothing but fallacy.
According to him, “when I 
    assumed office as the chairman, I called all the CDAs and CDCs 
    Chairmen and we had a meeting and they made me understood all those 
    things they needed and I have started working on some of those 
    requests. I don’t know why somebody would just come out here and be 
    saying what is not true.
“During the primaries, somebody contested from her side and 
    because the person lost, they have been an opposition to most of 
    the things we have been doing. You as journalists can go around and 
    conduct your investigations; then you will see most of the things 
    we have done,” Mafe stated.
Other requests by residents are that the government should work 
    on the Ayobo- Ipaja road that links Sango- 
    Ota in Ogun state, other roads they want the government to 
    work on are Akesan-Obadore road, Isiba- 
    Agodo road, and that Pako to Isheri road should be extended 
    to join Jakande road. They also want drainage to be constructed on 
    Ikotun- Ijegun road.
Residents also want extension of canal from Agege/Dopemu to 
    Command. Other request include Bore 
    hole, security, transformers, potable drinking water etc.
In his address earlier, speaker of the House, Adeyemi Ikuforiji 
    assured the residents that the House would weigh their feelings and 
    mirror their needs to bring about a better society.
“Creating linkages between the government and the governed is a 
    major focus of this democratic- 
    strengthening program embarked upon by the Lagos 
    dtate House of Assembly”, 
    Ikuforiji said.
Also in his welcome address earlier Hon. Onibiyo Adelabu, 
    representing Alimosho 1 in the House told his constituents that the 
    town hall meeting is a major decentralized program that takes 
    lawmaking to the people.
“And as elected officials we are responsible for development 
    planning and pilot projects …this is a golden opportunity that must 
    not elude you as every community ought to have social amenities and 
    your request through this forum would be channeled to the 
    appropriate authorities”.
