AD, PDP battle for Reps seat in Ibeju-Lekki
Tomorrow’s by-election into the House of 
    Representatives in Ibeju-Lekki Constituency, Lagos State, has 
    provided a turf for fresh battle between progressive politicians 
    and their conservative rivals, reports Deputy Political Editor 
    EMMANUEL OLADESU
Inside the ring are Prince Jamiu Eletu, a businessman from 
    Awoyaya and Okanlawon Soniyi, a retired civil servant.
While Eletu is contesting on the platform of the oldest 
    progressive party in this dispensation, the Alliance for Democracy 
    (AD), Soniyi is challenging him as the flag bearer of the Peoples 
    Democratic Party (PDP).
Tomorrow, Ibeju-Lekki will be an interesting battle field. The 
    historical antecedent of the constituency and character of its 
    political leaders make it tick. It has been difficult to pin them 
    down to one party.
In 1998, during the local government election, the All Nigeria 
    Peoples Party (ANPP) installed the local government chairman, 
    Dr. Tola Kasali. The following year, another ANPP stalwart, 
    Tona Yusuf won the House of Representatives election.
In 2003, AD displaced ANPP. In fact, many members of ANPP 
    defected to AD. In 2007, AC Action Congress (AC) won the seat.
Also in 1999, ANPP produced the two members of House of 
    Assembly. In 2003, AD candidates displaced them.
In 2007, Musiliu Alogba and Taofeek Adedoyin, both PDP 
    candidates won the two legislative seats.
In 2007, AC candidate, Isiaq Olawale was elected into the House 
    of Representatives. But, he was judicially deposed following the 
    discovery of some irregularities in his Senior Secondary School 
    Examination (SSCE) certificate.
As the parties put finishing touches to their plans to clinch 
    victory, observers have predicted a titanic battle tomorrow in the 
    fishing community. While PDP is laying claim to overwhelming 
    popularity, AD is disputing it.
AC has no candidate for the poll. But, the party, led by Chief 
    Dele Ajomale, has directed its members to support the AD 
    candidate.
While the PDP onslaught is being co-ordinated by a former 
    Special Assistant to President, Chief Bode Oyedele, the AD 
    resistance force is being motivated by the AC chieftains.
There is also a solid alliance among AD, AC and other 26 
    political parties under the aegis of the Lagos State chapter of the 
    Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP).
Many of the PDP leaders rely on the voting pattern of the 
    constituency in their calculations. For example, while AC won the 
    House of Representatives seat in 2007, PDP won the two Assembly 
    slots.
On the other hand, the AD/AC alliance is banking on the power 
    incumbency and the performance of the AC-led government in the 
    state.
Besides, the AC family is not complacent. Chieftains from the 55 
    local councils may be lending moral and financial support to their 
    counterparts in the two Ibeju-Lekki councils, sources said.
Two weeks ago, the South-West PDP campaign 
    trail rolled into Akodo, a Lagos 
    suburb, to drum up support for Soniyi. Three governors; Olagunsoye 
    Oyinlola (Osun State), Gbenga Daniel (Ogun) and Adebayo Alao-Akala 
    (Oyo) took time off state duty to attend the rally. The Lagos PDP 
    train was led by former National Deputy Chairman of the party Chief 
    Bode George.
The PDP governors turned the campaign into an ego war. Lamenting 
    the failure of their'capture' theory in 
    2003 and 2007, they impressed it on their members to re-launch the 
    bid tomorrow by wining the 
    Ibeju-Lekki seat.
Oyinlola, Daniel and Akala campaigned in apparent trepidation at 
    the move by progressives to half their dominance in 2011. They 
    tried to re-invent the mainstream option. They failed to hinge 
    their arguments on the performances of the PDP-led Federal 
    Government since it assumed power in the last 10 years of unbroken 
    democracy. Perhaps, there was nothing to celebrate, or they were to 
    far in-between, or both.
A lot of salvos were fired at former Lagos State Governor Bola 
    Tinubu who frustrated the PDP moves to hijack power in the 
    much-coveted Centre of Excellence since 1999. They were unanimous 
    in their belief that what they could not achieve at the state level 
    could begin with tomorrow’s by-election in Ibeju-Lekki.
After the PDP campaign, AD went back to the drawing board. The 
    chairman, Alhaji Lateef Raji, wrote a letter to the progressive 
    leaders in the South-West, urging them to support the party’s 
    candidate.
Raji later told reporters in Bogije, Ibeju-Lekki, that he 
    proposed an alliance with other like-minded parties to save the 
    constituency from peril.
"Should PDP win Ibeju-Lekki, they will draw the local 
    government and constituency backward and Ibeju-Lekki would be left 
    behind in the march of progress," he said.
Perhaps that was the elixir the CNPP needed. It swung into 
    action. Their leaders traversed the nooks and cranny of the 
    constituency, explaining to voters the import of the by-election 
    and implications for the future.
"It is a door-to-door campaign and we see the eagerness of 
    the prospective voters in the towns and villages to endorse AD on 
    Saturday," said Remi Adeyemo, AD Publicity Secretary.
At an AD rally in Ibere Kudi Primary School, on Wednesday, were 
    Tinubu; AD national chairman, Chief Michael Koleoso; Speaker of the 
    House of Assembly, Adeyemi Ikuforiji, and his deputy, Mrs Funmi 
    Tejuoso.
Others included Senator Adeleke Mamora; a member of the House of 
    Representatives, Mrs. Abike Dabiri and Lagos AC 
    Vice-Chairman Cardinal James Odunmbaku.
Tinubu, who said he was at the rally on the invitation of like 
    minds, noted that the poll is another struggle between the 
    progressives and the conservatives.
"The vote on Saturday is a vote for independence. It is not 
    about Ibeju-Lekki alone. It is about Lagos State", he said, 
    adding that PDP governors held a panic rally because they feared a 
    looming defeat.
Echoing him, Ikuforiji said the PDP’s rigging plan has been 
    uncovered. He urged the people to vote and defend their votes.
"They are threatening that they want to hijack Ibeju-Lekki. 
    They are lying," he added.
Lagos State CNPP leader Akinola Obajuwa also warned against 
    malpractices.
"We, the leaders and members of CNPP have assured the AD 
    chairman (Raji) that we will vote for Jamiu Eletu. He is the choice 
    of the people. We ask you, people, defend your votes. We ask you to 
    also reject the money PDP will offer," Obajuwa said.
Raji educated the voters on the voting behaviour. He urged them 
    to come to the polling centres early for accreditation and shun 
    unruly behaviour..
Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Mr. 
    Moses Ogbeh has promised to conduct a free and fair election.
"We are making a solid arrangement. Security would be 
    available too. This is a by-election, but we are preparing as if it 
    as a general election. We shall conduct a free and fair election 
    ," he said.
