FG plans N50bn amnesty package
N402m needed as take-off grant, Militants to get 60-75 
    days to renounce militancy
LAGOS — A TOTAL N50 billion (fifty billion naira) has been 
    proposed by the Presidential Panel on Amnesty and Disarmament of 
    Militants in the Niger Delta to make peace in the Niger delta 
    region, Vanguard can reveal authoritatively.
Of this amount, the sum of N402 million (Four Hundred and Two 
    million Naira) is immediately required as take-off grant, should 
    the proposals of the Presidential Panel be adopted by the National 
    Council of State which meets on Thursday, June 25. The panel 
    submitted its report on Thursday, June 4, 2009.
The panel’s 63-page report (with 38 pages of main report and 25 
    pages of annexure), made it clear that:
“No counter-insurgency effort which culminated in Amnesty 
    anywhere in the world has been a cheap venture.
The Panel is also conscious of the overall desire of the 
    government to channel all financial resources towards the 
    accelerated development of the Niger Delta region. However, some 
    money must be spent in the course of restoration of law and order 
    to give room for construction machines to move in.
“The projected sum of N50,000,000,000 (Fifty billion naira) as 
    envisaged would go a long way in the peace making effort. Future 
    financial challenges will be addressed as they arise.
“The C-in-C is invited to note this modest estimate in the 
    course of deliberations with the governors and other 
    stakeholders.
“In the interim and in order to carry out pre-proclamation 
    activities, the sum of N402,000,000 (four hundred and two million 
    naira) is requested for release to the implementation bodies as a 
    take-off grant”.
The panel also proposed that “for effectiveness, the amnesty 
    proposed by the Federal Government should take the form of a 
    Presidential broadcast whereby details of the reprieve would be 
    proclaimed to the public, including the militants and the 
    international community.”
The Panel further said “due to the complex nature of the Niger 
    Delta militancy, it is recommended that the broadcast/proclamation 
    should give to the militants a period not exceeding seventy-five 
    (75) days but not less than sixty (60) days within which to 
    renounce militancy and subscribe to the oath of renunciation. The 
    renunciation and subscription to the oath should be done publicly 
    at designated centres.”
Terms of reference
The Presidential Panel on Amnesty and Disarmament of Militants 
    in the Niger Delta had a three-pronged term of reference. In the 
    panel’s report, letters from the Secretary to the Government of the 
    Federation (SGF), with ref numbers SGF.
19/S.105/9 of 4 May, 2009 and SGF.19/S.105/15 of 5 
    May conveyed the approval of Mr. President in constituting 
    the Panel, which was tasked to address the following as its Terms 
    of reference:
*To prepare a step-by-step framework for amnesty and complete 
    Disarmament, Demobilisation and Re-integration in Niger Delta with 
    appropriate time-lines.
*To ensure that those with criminal records do not take 
    advantage of the amnesty;
*To work out the cost to Government of disarmament, 
    demobilisation and re-integration of the militants”.
The Panel’s report concludes with a ten-point recommendation 
    thus:
“The grant of Amnesty to Niger Delta militants is perhaps the 
    boldest decision the Federal Government has taken towards resolving 
    the intractable problems of the region.
This golden opportunity must be seized and maximized. Government 
    must act fast to enhance the minimum of confidence already being 
    engendered by the initiative.”
Summary of Major Recommendations
The summary of the major recommendations are as follows:
“That the declaration of the Amnesty should be by a Presidential 
    Proclamation;
“That all militants who respond positively to the Amnesty should 
    by that act receive presidential pardon and thus become immune from 
    criminal prosecution on account of any acts they might have 
    committed as militants;
“That all those who thus become free and blameless citizens 
    should be fully integrated and rehabilitated at Government 
    expense;
“That the entire programme should be driven by massive 
    multi-media publicity blitz before, during and after the 
    proclamation of Amnesty;
“All tiers of government, security agencies civil society groups 
    and other stakeholders should fully participate in achieving the 
    goal of general amnesty and integration for the ex-militants and 
    the establishment of a lasting peace in the Niger Delta region;
“Amnesty should be pursued pari-passu with effective 
    anti-bunkering measures because of the close correlation between 
    illegal oil bunkering and armed conflict in the Niger delta 
    region;
“The local population, the nation at large and the international 
    community should be carried along through appropriate perception 
    management strategies both to win their support and to counter any 
    negative propaganda that may be mounted by renegades;
“The economic aspects of re-integrating the ex-militants in 
    terms of job creation, professional development and micro-credit 
    facilities, would require appropriate collaboration with NDE, 
    NAPEP, NDDC, the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, PTDF as well as 
    the oil majors;
“Qualified ex-militants could be considered for employment by 
    Private security firms (in) the Niger Delta region to perform 
    surveillance duties on oil pipelines and installations; and
“A take-off grant of N402 million would be required for the 
    Disarmament, Demobilisation and Re-integration (DDR) programme 
    ”
Panel members and sub-committees
The Presidential Panel, which initially had 18 original members, 
    with Minister of Interior, Major-General Godwin O. Abbe 
    (rtd) CFR, as Chairman, co-opted seven other members into the 
    panel, because the “panel was allowed to invite any person or group 
    of persons that could assist in the execution of its mandate.”
Therefore, the report discloses, “the panel invited 
    representatives of the Governors of Edo and Cross River states and 
    co-opted a retired military officer with requisite experience and 
    expertise in Disarmament, Demobilisation and Re-integration matters 
    in the capacity of Staff Adviser.
The membership of the panel is as follows:
Maj-Gen G. O. Abbe (rtd) Chairman; Elder G. 
    Orubebe, member; Air Chief Marshal P. Dike, Chief of defence 
    Staff, member; Mr. Mike Okiro, Inspector-general of Police, 
    member; Mr. Azubuko Udah, AIG, member; Mrs. G. 
    E. Odegbaro, member; Alhaji Mustapha Sani, member; Alhaji 
    Y.M. Bichi, member; Dr. Bukhari Bello, member; 
    Dr. T. Koripamo-Agary, member; Barr. M. 
    J. Eyo (Akwa Ibom) member; Barr. O.J. 
    Oworibo (Bayelsa) member; Mr. Bassey Okim (Cross River) 
    member; Hon. Dafe Akpedeye (SAN) (Delta) member; Mr. 
    E.O. Odiai (Edo), member; Mr. W.R. Olamide (Ondo) member; Barr. Bestman Nnwoka (Rivers) 
    member; Alhaji B.U. Maitambari, member/Secretary.
The seven co-opted members include Col. O. 
    Majoyeogbe (rtd), member/staff adviser to the panel; Cdre T.O. Awoyemi; Brig-Gen F.U. Atele; Col. 
    S. Abdulkadir; Capt (NN) A. Akirinade; Mr. 
    Godwin Igbinosa and Mr. P. K. Emefiele.
Sub-committees and costs
An authoritative source in the Presidency disclosed to Vanguard 
    that the committee divided itself into four sub-committees with 
    respective terms of reference.
The sub-committees are Amnesty, headed by Mr. Mike Okiro, 
    IGP; Disarmament and Demobilisation, headed by Air Chief Marshal 
    P. Dike; Publicity and Liaison, headed by Dr. T. Koripamo-Agary; and Rehabilitation and Reintegration, headed by 
    Chief G. Orubebe.
The work of the Amnesty sub-committee, headed by Okiro, 
    according to the report is to cost “N966,000,000:00, after the 
    deduction of the proposed take-off grant.”
The financial requirement for the Disarmament and Demobilisation 
    is estimated to cost N19,109,746,700: 00 (Nineteen Billion, One 
    Hundred and Nine Million, Seven Hundred and Forty-Six Thousand, 
    Seven Hundred Naira) and is further broken into 16 sub-components 
    as follows:
*Requirement for Establishing Coordinating Centres — 
    N48,520,000:00
*Vehicle and Generator Requirement for Coordinating Centres — 
    N6,987,787,500:00
*Security for Coordinating Centre — N1,500,000:00
*Sanitation, Medical and Recreational Facilities — 
    N517,343,100:00
*Operational Allowance for
*Troops at Collection Point — N242,550,000:00
*Operational Allowance for Troops at Screening Point — 
    N242,550,000:00
*Operational Allowance for 
    Trrops at Holding Camp — N242,550,000:00
*Feeding Arrangements, Reception Centre — N93,712,500:00
* Feeding Arrangement Screening Centre/Feeding Arrangement 
    Holding Centre — N281,137,500:00
*Medical Care and Feeding for Each ex-militant for 75 Days — 
    N189,500: 00 multiplied by number of militants.
*Subsistence Allowance for Each Ex-militant for 75 Days — 
    N37,500:00 multiplied by number of militants.
*Other Requirements for the Holding Camps, Collection and 
    Screening Points — N197,020,000:00
*Running of the Secretariat — N822,000:00
*Provision of Accommodation for Troops — N290,276,000:00
*Communication Equipment — N737,107,500:00
T O T A L: N 19,109,746,700: 00
According to the report, “the projected cost of the Publicity 
    and Liaison sub-committee is N1,040,200,000:00 (One billion, forty 
    million, two hundred thousand naira) having taken into 
    consideration the intended release of the sum of N75,000,000:00 
    (seventy five million naira) as take-off grant”. For the 
    Re-integration sub-committee, the report states:
“In view of the massive activities of the sub-committee, it is 
    projected that the sum of N3,833,500.00 (three million, 
    eight hundred and thirty-three thousand, five hundred naira) will 
    be required having been given a take-off grant of N109, 000,000:00 
    (one hundred and nine million naira)”.
It is expected that the National Council of State would 
    deliberate on the proposals in the report of the Presidential Panel 
    on Amnesty and Disarmanent 
    of Militants in the Niger Delta on Thursday.
