CBN orders banks to submit loan details to fuel 
    marketers
LAGOS — IN a move targeted at ascertaining the level of banks’ 
    exposure to fuel marketers and other energy players, the Central 
    Bank (CBN) yesterday ordered banks operating in the country to 
    submit to it, their loans and advances to the energy sector.
Also, the apex bank has directed banks and Discount Houses in 
    the country to adopt December as common accounting year-end 
    beginning from 31st December, 2009.
In a circular issued in Abuja, with reference no 
    BSD/DIR/GEN/CIR/03/010 signed by D.A.N. Eke, 
    Acting Director, Banking Supervision, entitled “Circular to All 
    Banks Re: Submission on Details of Total Exposures to Companies in 
    the Energy Sector”, the CBN said “All banks are hereby requested to 
    submit to the Acting Director of Banking Supervision details of 
    their total exposures to the companies in the Energy Sector, namely 
    Up-Stream, Down-Stream and Oil Service companies, as at May 31, 
    2009.
“The details should include: the borrower; the outstanding 
    balance; the performance status under the following classification; 
    performing, non- performing and restructured collaterals given and 
    their current market value.
“The information should reach the Ag. Director of Banking 
    Supervision no later than Friday, June 26, 2009” the CBN said.
Common year-end for banks
On the adoption of a common year-end, the Central Bank said “In 
    order to further enhance the level playing field in the banking 
    sector post-consolidation, it has become necessary to adopt a 
    uniform accounting year-end in the industry.
As agreed at the Bankers’ Committee meeting of March 21, 2009; 
    December 31 has been adopted as a common accounting year end for 
    all banks and discount houses effective from 2009.
“Consequently, the Boards and Management of all banks and 
    discount houses are hereby advised to ensure that all the necessary 
    legal and regulatory requirements to put effect to this agreement 
    are in place as well as required notifications to and approvals 
    from the relevant agencies.
The Boards and Management of banks and discount houses are 
    furthermore reminded to streamline the year ends of their 
    subsidiaries with that of the parent company in line with S.3 34 (5) of CAMA, 1990 as amended.
“Banks and discount houses are to note that a maximum accounting 
    period of eighteen (18) months and a minimum accounting period of 
    six (6) months are allowable as a full accounting year during this 
    period of transition.
In adherence to this, banks whose year-ends do not coincide with 
    December 31, should inform the CBN of the number of months to be 
    covered by their next audited accounts bearing in mind the maximum 
    and minimum accounting period stated above”.
The move by the CBN is aimed at sanitising the banks and rid the 
    system of their heavy exposure to oil marketing companies which 
    took facilities from banks when oil prices were high and could not 
    service same when crude oil prices crashed last year.
Banks exposure to oil marketing companies and margin loans have 
    been issues that banks have been grappling with. According to 
    PricewaterhouseCoopers audit report on banks in the country early 
    in the year, the global decline of oil prices have adversely 
    affected many Nigerian banks as the loans given to oil marketers 
    have gone bad.
Some of the banks have changed their oil and gas group heads as 
    a result of this. Further, the audit report indicated that banks 
    also suffered a setback by the sudden devaluation of the naira.
All of these have put a hole in the balance sheet of most banks 
    in the country.
I’ll fire bank MDs if I have to — Sanusi
The new CBN Governor, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi has told all who 
    cared to listen that he would insist on adequate disclosure by 
    banks
In an interview with the Financial Times of London published 
    yesterday, his very first interview since assuming office, Sanusi 
    will be preoccupied with three issues in the first few months of 
    his term. These are transparency, accurate disclosures of the bad 
    loans in the banking industry, and systemic risks that may appear 
    from handling individual risks of some banks.
The key area of transparency expected by Sanusi is in the area 
    of accounting procedures and integrity.
He said in the FT report, “I think it’s also important to send 
    very clear signals to bank executives that it’s not a crime to make 
    a loss, but it’s criminal to lie about it. If at any point in time 
    I have reason to believe that a bank chief executive is not fit to 
    be chief executive, I will remove him.”
Sanusi has by this directive instituted an audit process of the 
    bad loans on banks’ balance sheets, especially those related to 
    loans granted to oil marketing companies. This process is expected 
    to be completed by Friday this week.
