CSR:Bristow donates helicopter to NCAT for students’ 
    practical training
The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has expressed 
    satisafaction at the high 
    compliance level of airlines to the agency’s directive to refleet 
    with new and more modern aircraft to enhance safety.
This comes as Bristow Helicopters Nigeria Limited pledged to 
    retire one of its helicopters to Nigerian College of Aviation 
    Technology (NCAT), Zaria, for practical training of its 
    students.
Director-General of the NCAA, Dr. Harold Demuren, who 
    spoke while unveiling weekend in Lagos the brand new Cessna 
    Citation executive jet and helicopters acquired by Bristow 
    Helicopters, said the take over of the nation’s airspace by new 
    planes has helped to restore the confidence of the flying public, 
    especially after the fatal crashes of 2005 and 2006.
He commended the management of Bristow Helicopters Nigeria 
    Limited for heeding NCAA’s directive for airlines operating in the 
    country to acquire new planes for their operations.
“Today, Bristow is showing compliance. When this 
    administration came, the airspace was replete with old planes, but 
    now, there are new planes everywhere and we are very happy about 
    this.
“Bristow was the first to bring into the country brand 
    new Dornier 228. Today, we are witnessing another one. We have not 
    had problems of compliance with Bristow and this is the way to 
    go,” said Demuren, who was represented by NCAA Director of 
    Licensing, Capt. Telema George.
Demuren expressed delight that the Cessna Citation jet acquired 
    by the company has a tracking device, which will make it possible 
    for the aircraft to be tracked and monitored wherever it was during 
    flight.
He urged airlines that are yet to embrace the directive to do so 
    without further delay, vowing that the NCAA would enforce the 
    directive to the letter.
Deputy Managing Director of Bristow Helicopters Nigeria Limited, 
    Capt. Akin Oni, disclosed that the company was in the 
    process of donating one of its helicopters to the nation’s aviation 
    college (NCAT) in Zaria for training of its students, adding that 
    the gesture was part of the company’s corporate social 
    responsibility (CSR).
Capt. Oni said much of the company’s CSR revolved around 
    training of personnel for the aviation sector, noting that the 
    company expends no less than $210,000 for training of each pilot 
    for its operations.
According to him, Bristow’s biggest spending is on training 
    because of the gap the issue of training has created in the 
    nation’s aviation industry.
Oni, who noted that Bristow Helicopters had in the last six 
    months invested $100 million on acquisition of new planes and 
    helicopters, said the latest acquisition of Cessna Citation 
    executive jet and helicopter cost the company $50 million.
He said the company would continue to abide by regulatory rules 
    relating to safety, especially as, according to him, its 
    competitive edge over competition is also safety.
Capt. Oni also said the company has the capacity to 
    embark on “D” checks, the highest level of checks, on its 
    helicopters as well as “C” checks of its jets.
He said the company, whicch 
    currently has a fleet of 53 aircraft, comprising 51 helicopters and 
    two executive jets, has never recorded any accident in its 41-year 
    history.
