Amnesty: Govs to compile names of militants
No 'arms for money' deal, panel insists
LAGOS — GOVERNORS of states in the Niger Delta where militants 
    are either domiciled or operate from would be required to compile 
    the list of militants who seek to take advantage of President Umaru 
    Yar'Adua’s amnesty offer, Vanguard can reveal.
Also, it has been made very clear that the concept of “Arms for 
    Money” would not be entertained in any form.
These are some of the propositions contained in the report of 
    the Presidential Panel on Amnesty and Disarmanent of Militants in the Niger Delta which would be 
    discussed by the National Council of State when it meets in the 
    next 48 hours.
The 63-page document made it expressly clear that in the place 
    of “Arms for money”, the new concept expected to be embraced by the 
    militants would be freedom and full rehabilitation.
In Chapter One of the report, which deals with the issue of 
    amnesty, the committee suggested thus:
“The state governors should be required to compile the list of 
    militants that seek to take advantage of Mr. President’s 
    reprieve and forward same through the Hon. Minister of 
    Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation to the 
    Presidency.”
The report further stated that granting full “amnesty to all 
    categories of militants in the Niger Delta, including those 
    presently undergoing criminal prosecution would engender confidence 
    in the process and encourage every militant to participate and 
    remove any fear of a hidden agenda and discrimination”.
In explaining its concept of disarmament, the Presidential Panel 
    on Amnesty and Disarmament of Militants in the Niger Delta said:
“There is the need to define the concept of the disarmament 
    process to prevent the militants from re-arming. The concept of 
    “Arms for money” must never be entertained.”
The Panel then placed its own preferred concept on the table:
“The recommended concept is the return of arms for full 
    rehabilitation and freedom from prosecution.
“In addition, the slogan of'Arms for freedom and 
    full rehabilitation' should be employed by the 
    information sub-committee.”
To back up its suggestion in the area of massive enlightenment, 
    the Panel recommends that “all forms of media are used to 
    disseminate the details of the amnesty being offered by the 
    government, and to spread the message of peace for development.
The publicity will be done at the community level but national 
    medium are included because it is important that all Nigerians are 
    aware of the amnesty policy, appreciate the message of peace, and 
    collectively participate in the peace process. It is obvious that 
    what happens in the Niger Delta now could act as a template for 
    other hot pocket areas, if they are to ever develop in any other 
    part of Nigeria".
As a measure of assurance, the panel goes ahead to state that 
    “what emerges from this panel will be the basis upon which the 
    militants in the Niger Delta will be judged as being in keeping 
    with the law or law breakers”.
The Committee then went ahead to implore that “every effort must 
    be made to saturate the consciousness of every Nigerian, through 
    every means available/possible, to ensure that the expectations and 
    outcome of the process are communicated to all so that no one can 
    claim ignorance of what Government is doing”.
