PTDF gets N15bn to upgrade National College of Petroleum 
    Studies
ABUJA -THE Petroleum Technology Development Fund has announced 
    that it has received an approval of about N15 billion for the 
    upgrade of facilities at the 16-year-old National College of 
    Petroleum Studies in Kaduna, Kaduna State.
The Federal Executive Council had recently approved the sum for 
    contract awards by the PTDF for the project, which upon completion 
    would be renamed as the Institute for Petroleum Policy and 
    Strategy.
The Executive Secretary of PTDF, Engr. Muttaqha Rabe 
    Darma, noted in a release on Friday signed by the Head, Press and 
    External Relations in the PTDF, Mr. Kalu Otisi, that the 
    project when completed will become the flagship institution for 
    training senior management personnel in the industry to become 
    general management staff. He said, “This institute would 
    represent to the industry what the National Institute for Policy 
    and Strategic Studies is to the public service and the National 
    Defence College to the military.”
Darma further disclosed that the upgrade of the college, 
    originally established by the Nigerian National Petroleum 
    Corporation in 1992, would involve equipping it with relevant 
    facilities, including a world-class laboratory for analytical work 
    and research in oil as gas.
The PTDF boss who had earlier visited the Governor of Kaduna 
    State, Arc. Mohammed Nemadi Sambo, to seek his support for 
    the project, equally appealed for the issuance of the Certificate 
    of Occupancy for the 90 hectares of land provided by the state for 
    the project.
Meanwhile, a target of 97 weeks from July 1, 2009 has been set 
    for the completion and commissioning of the project to upgrade the 
    National College of Petroleum Studies.
Darma noted at the signing of 
    consultanty agreements for the supervision of the project 
    by selected consultants, that the deadline was derived from the 
    work plan submitted by the contractors considered for the award of 
    contracts for the project.
He urged the consultants to apply professional skills to ensure 
    that the project is delivered on time and in good quality.
Darma gave assurance that the Fund would not delay in paying 
    contractors as and when certificates are raised having regard to 
    the provisions of the Public Procurement Act.
The formal contract signing event for the project would be held 
    at the project location in Kaduna on Tuesday (today), after which 
    the foundation stone for the upgrade project would be laid to flag 
    off construction work on the project.
The statement further noted that the Petroleum Technology 
    Development Fund has so far spent about N17 billion in the 
    educational, organizational and infrastructural upgrade of the 
    Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, Warri for enhanced training 
    of middle-level manpower for the industry.
