Thunder enters, energy drink market re-focuses
The energy drink market re-focused penultimate week when Thunder 
    energy drink entry into the beverage market courtesy Sunola Foods 
    Limited, producers and marketers of Sunola edible oil changed 
    market indices.
Sunola foods said it is entering the beverage market with 
    Thunder Energy drink to give Nigerian customers a quality product 
    manufactured in Turkey .
In a market survey on energy drinks, according to a statement, 
    said, Thunder single-handedly was responsible for boosting the 
    beverage market, outperforming others, while total sales on others 
    dipped during quarter one, “sales of energy drinks shot up by 
    almost 50 percent,” while market analysts predicts that no slowdown 
    is expected in that sector of the beverage market.
Mr. Mamish Parikh, General Manager, Sunola Limited said 
    that as the energy drink market expands, consumers are getting 
    smarter about their choices. Thus, Thunder energy drink, is an 
    example of the burgeoning “smart” energy drink category.
He stated that the competition to create the most pleasant and 
    powerful experience from an energy drink will be tough, “and we 
    planned to stay well ahead of the others by creating independent 
    energy drink Thunder, which is the latest beverage to hit the 
    thriving energy drink market.”
Continuing, he said,'it is produced in Turkey 
    under the strict EU quality norms, Thunder is changing the way 
    consumers perception about the energy drink, providing them with 
    best quality product, that improves the physical and mental 
    endurance to new levels.”
Parikh said the drink is available in 250 ml Can, “Thunder is 
    flavorful both on its own and mixed with other beverages, with just 
    the right amount of energy for its drinkers through the day. 
    . Its unique fruitful and refreshing taste is putting 
    Thunder on top. Reflecting an increasing demand for health and 
    wellness products, Thunder is set to generate a lot of buzz and 
    excitement throughout the Country, he 
    assured.
Thunder is a NAFDAC approved product. There are a few Energy 
    Drinks on the market already but not all them are approved by 
    NAFDAC.
The well balanced sweet & sour taste gives your body the 
    feeling of really great refreshing & perfect drinking fun.
Thunder is a very special Energy Drink which increases mental 
    alertness and stimulates the metabolism at any time you need. It is 
    beneficial to central nerve system which improves concentration, 
    stamina & performance.
Sunola Foods Limited is part of Kewalram Chanrai Group which 
    operates in Africa for about 115 years. Presently, the group is 
    having operations in more than 50 countries.
