Cancer Patient Seeks N1.3 for Treatment
A 35-year old breast cancer patient at Federal Medical Centre 
    (FMC) Abakaliki, Mrs. Caroline Chukwu Odi, has made a 
    passionate appeal to public spirited individuals, organisations and 
    the government to come to her aid in raising N1.3 million 
    required for the treatment of her ailment.
Speaking in an interview with THISDAY on her hospital bed, Odi 
    said she was at the verge of suffering paralysis which might result 
    to her death and pleaded for financial assistance to save her 
    life.
Also corroborating his wife’s appeal, Mr. George Chukwu 
    Odi, a petty trader at Abuja stated that he has expended all his 
    life’s savings in trying to provide medical solution to her wife’s 
    sickness but the situation remains life threatening.
Explaining how the problem started, Odi, who hails from Isu 
    Echara in Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, said it 
    started in 2007 when his wife complained that she was having pains 
    on her left breast and when she was taken to Gwagwalada Specialist 
    Hospital, it was confirmed that she had cancer of the breast.
According to him, his wife was taken to Asokoro hospital where 
    it was further discovered that the cancer was about to spread to 
    the right breast also. The medical experts however told them that 
    both breasts can still be treated as the problem hasn’t degenerated 
    badly as shown by tests conducted.
He said that she was subsequently given minor treatment and 
    discharged, only for the ailment to come back some months after 
    with more severity resulting her being admitted at National 
    Hospital Abuja where she was given full treatment in addition to 
    removing the left breast through surgical operation.
“After that we felt it was ok, as we were only going for medical 
    check ups. She returned to the village and went to Aba to stay 
    briefly with her brother. It was there the problem came back and 
    became worse than before. We now came to Ebonyi State University 
    Teaching Hospital (EBSUTH), but after we stayed for two weeks, they 
    went on strike and we were then transferred to FMC,” he 
    narrated.
Odi said that he was forced to relocate to Ebonyi abandoning his 
    means of livelihood in order to be with his wife, adding that 
    presently he has no money to continue with the treatment or to take 
    care of his wife and their only 12 year old son.
In a reaction, the consultant physician handling Odi’s case at 
    the FMC, Dr. O.O Okidi, told newsmen that the patient 
    was being managed by the hospital for advanced cancer of the 
    breast, adding however that her condition has gone beyond baseline 
    treatment for breast cancer, but that she can only benefit from 
    second line therapy which he said was very expensive.
Okidi put the cost of the six-course second line treatment to 
    N1,390,440 in order to save Odi from dying, insisting that the case 
    was treatable.
