49 Nigerians stole N143.6bn public funds - EFCC
ABUJA — FORTY-NINE Nigerians looted the nation’s treasury to the 
    tune of N143.6 billion (One hundred and forty-three billion, 
    six hundred million naira), the Economic and Financial Crimes 
    Commission revealed yesterday.
Also, Chairman of the Commission, Mrs Farida Waziri, at an 
    interactive session with journalists, in Abuja, to mark her first 
    year in office yesterday said the court cases of some former 
    governors were ongoing and that there was no letting up on efforts 
    to prosecute former Governor of Rivers State, Dr. Peter 
    Odili and Senator Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos State.
49 Nigerians docked over N143bn fraud
It has also come to light that 49 Nigerians are presently being 
    prosecuted by the EFCC for fraud, totaling N143.6 billion. 
    This was contained in a list of “On-going High Profile Cases” made 
    available by the anti-graft body yesterday. The high profile cases 
    include that of some ex-governors. 11 of the fraud cases were 
    commenced by former chairman of the anti-graft agency, Mallam Nuhu 
    Ribadu, while the incumbent boss of the EFCC, Mrs Farida Waziri has 
    filed 20 fraud-related charges against suspects.
Most of the suspects have been granted bail by the court. The 
    suspects in the UBEC case where high profile public servants 
    connived with an American, Alexander Cozman, to defraud the 
    government are however still in the custody of the EFCC.
Some of the cases listed include the case against former 
    Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State at the Federal High Court, Lagos 
    over N1.2 billion.
Another case is against former Governor Joshua Dariye of Plateau 
    State at the Federal High Court, Gudu.
Also listed is the case of former Governor Saminu Turaki of 
    Jigawa State at the Federal High Court, Maitama, over N36 
    billion.
Also ongoing is the trial of former Governor Jolly Nyame of 
    Taraba state over N180 million; the case against former Governor 
    Michael Botmang of Plateau State over N1.5 billion.
The ongoing trial of Mr Roland Iyayi, former Managing Director 
    of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) over N5.6 billion is also listed. The trial of Mr Eider George, an 
    Ustalian Business man at the FCT High Court, Maitama over N5.6 billion and that of Mr Patrick Fernandez, an Indian Businessman 
    whose trial is ongoing at the Federal High Court, Lagos over N32 
    billion fraud is also listed.
The trial of four Senior Managers of a bank over N3.6 
    billion at the Federal High Court, Port Harcourt is also one the 
    cases listed by the EFCC.
Also, the Rural Electrification Agency fraud case to the tune of 
    N6.2 billion involving a serving Senator, three serving 
    members of the House of Representatives, the Permanent Secretary in 
    the Ministry of Power and other top public officers was listed. The 
    suspects in the case include Senator Nicholas Ugbane, Mr Ndudi 
    Elumelu, Mr Mohammed Jibo, Mr Paulinus Igwe, Mr Samuel Ibi, Dr 
    Aliyu Abdullahi, Mr Simon Nanle, Mr Lawrence Orekoya, Mr Kayode 
    Oyedeji and Mr Garba Jahun.
According to the EFCC, charges have been filed against the 
    former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mallam Nasir 
    El-Rufai, but he is yet to put in an appearance.
No letting up on Odili, Tinubu
On former Governors Odili and Tinubu, Mrs Waziri said: “I 
    inherited most of these case files and no file was at any time 
    involving the governors was declared missing as reported by the 
    press. Instead, we have been investigating and building on the 
    files.”
Answering specific questions on Dr Peter Odili and Senator Bola 
    Tinubu both former governors of Rivers and Lagos states 
    respectively, the EFCC boss said the Commission was working hard to 
    drag them before the law court.
According to her, “there was no 
    time the case against Odili was dropped. There was this obnoxious 
    court order of perpetual injunction restraining us from prosecuting 
    him but we have appealed against it. We have been contesting the 
    obnoxious court order restraining us from prosecuting him. We have 
    assigned the case to a SAN to try to vacate it.”
On Tinubu, she said that the Commission was working on gathering 
    evidence with which to establish a case against the former governor 
    but admitted that certain words of her predecessor did not make 
    that effort easy.
Mrs. Waziri said she has been very sincere in handling 
    her responsibilities in the last one year, adding, “I don’t have 
    any basis to lie as posterity will judge me because in the last one 
    year, what I have done is to build case files, analysing them and 
    working day and night to ensure that suspects are arrested once a 
    prima facie case is established.”
Cases of ex-govs stalled in courts
She, however, expressed frustrations at the delays corruption 
    cases were suffering at the courts.
Her words: “The cases of past governors are ongoing. They are in 
    court. I have been crying hoarse that cases are stalled. This is 
    the area that I expect you, the media, to assist me; to cry out 
    with me. Cases that were filed by my predecessor are still there in 
    the courts. They are stalled, one way or the other.
“I have told you many times why I feel the cases are stalled. If 
    you have a bad case and you engage a lawyer whom you pay everything 
    that you can pay and even from the charges drafted, he knows that 
    if this case gets to its logical conclusion, he will end up in 
    jail, they will do everything they can to forestall the trial and 
    this is what is happening. The cases are not moving.
“I told you that what some of these lawyers do is to first of 
    all challenge the jurisdiction of the court. Even when it is clear 
    that the high court has jurisdiction, then they go to the court of 
    appeal to ask for a stay of execution, so the case is not moving at 
    all. And the delay of trial has its own repercussions: witness 
    fatigue, witnesses may die or move.
“My job is to compile the case file, charge them to court and 
    the next thing is to monitor the trials, to see whether on grounds 
    of technicality, the investigation was thorough or something was 
    missing; secondly to ensure that witnesses attend court and to 
    ensure that exhibits are tendered. And that is where my job stops. 
    I don’t go to the bench; I can’t do anything else.
“This is what is frustrating us and I leave that to you. You are 
    Nigerians. If one arm of government is trying to solve this 
    problem, you should highlight it; you should ask questions.”
The EFCC boss stressed the need for all Nigerians to buy into 
    the anti-corruption crusade, insisting, “all Nigerians are 
    stakeholders in this crusade.”
Reacting to the claims of civil right groups that the Commission 
    had performed below expectations under her watch, Mrs. 
    Waziri said: “I hate armchair critics who sit on the fence and 
    criticise everybody’s efforts. This country belongs to us all, if 
    they are given opportunity, they will steal this country silly 
    because they suffer from the Pull Him Down Syndrome (PHD).”
On the role of the banks, Waziri said “some of the banks report 
    (suspected transactions) while others don’t, that is why we 
    re-organised the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit to make it 
    more proactive and responsive to strategic intelligence.”
Estates built with stolen money to be confiscated
On the allegation that politicians were building estates and the 
    Commission is not beaming its searchlight on the property industry 
    with a view to confiscating those built with looted public funds, 
    she said that once the Non-Conviction Based Assets Forfeiture Bill 
    was passed, she would move against ill-gotten estates.
Her words, “A lot of estates are springing up in Abuja. We are 
    waiting for our Non-conviction Asset Forfeiture Bill to be passed 
    then we will really go into that. Find out the owner of this 
    estate, find out how he got the money to develop the estate. If you 
    can’t, we investigate you, we take the property to court. It has 
    nothing to do with the person. And we will take the property which 
    will be forfeited to the government if you are unable to 
    satisfactorily tell us how you came by that money.
“If you say you got a loan from the bank, we will investigate 
    that claim. If you say you inherited anything, we will investigate. 
    We are waiting for this law. It is going to make a great difference 
    because the incentive to steal will be lost. The incentive to 
    acquire properties in the country or outside the country and 
    acquire luxury cars will be lost.
“Even the fact that some are developing the estates through 
    proxies, companies or those that are developing properties using 
    prominent individuals as partners notwithstanding, we are taking 
    note of all of them.”
The Chairman said the Commission secured 65 convictions and has 
    recovered over N50 billion looted money. It has also developed the 
    EagleClaw, a software designed to combat cybercrime and advance fee 
    fraud (419) scam.
