Oshiomhole warns contractors
Edo State governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has warned 
    contractors handling various state government projects to meet job 
    specifications or be ready to face the wrath of the law.
The governor, who on tour of the 26 kilometres surface dressing 
    and drainage control of the Ihevbe-Sebe-Ogbe Road in Owan West 
    Local Government Area, visibly expressed dissatisfaction with the 
    substandard materials deployed in the construction of the project 
    by an indigenous company. The contract was awarded by previous 
    administrations.
Governor Oshiomhole said under his government, specification 
    must be met and that the risk and consequences of doing a different 
    thing would be meted on such contractors, added that roads were not 
    like fashion that could be changed every week.
While noting that the impact of rain was already telling on the 
    just constructed road and drainage, Governor Oshiomhole questioned 
    the contractor if he was proud of the job done.
Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Media, Mr. 
    John Mayaki, quoted the governor as warning that the state 
    government would insist on first class job, warning that no excuse 
    whatsoever could sway government resolve.
“If anybody, government official satisfies a job not done 
    according to specification, government will not hesitate to wield 
    the big stick against such a person.
Any job done in this administration must compare with the best 
    in the world. While I am here, we will not accept any third world 
    work,” the governor warned.
He promised to construct the Ago/Utuo road so that the 
    communities in that area could have access to the popular Ago 
    market in order to fight poverty in the locality.
Earlier, the Governor inspected facilities at the Auchi General 
    Hospital, Auchi, Siluko Road, Oko Centre, Ogida Street, off Siluko 
    Road and Uwelu Road.
The inspection of the roads was sequel to the on-going road 
    rehabilitation work already embarked upon by the state government 
    in its first phase.
Roads in this phase include Ihama Road by Enadeghe Street, Ihama 
    Road between Pattons Academy through Freedom Way, Ihama Road by 
    Ebenezar junction, Ihama Road by the Legislative Quarters and 
    Mechatronic Plaza, Ihama Road by Edale street, Boundary Road by 
    Egbetuo way, College Road and Five junction on Uselu Lagos Road.
The overnor, who during the 
    inspection assured the people of government resolve to move in 
    equipment to site, also shared in the plight of those resident in 
    those areas where the effect of the failed portions may have had 
    its toil on their socio-economic life.
He said: “I am not a happy governor whenever it rains. 
    Ordinarily, I like the rainy season, but as governor, when I see 
    people battling to move from one street to the other when it rains, 
    or motorists trying to meander the terrain, I am not always 
    happy”.
