Jailing Traffic Offenders
IN September 2007, Lagos State judiciary delivered a remarkable 
    judgment when it sentenced seven people accused of driving against 
    the traffic, on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway to 20 days 
    imprisonment. The prosecution and sentence were finished within a 
    month of the offence. 
Badejo Okusanya, presiding at an Ikeja Magistrate Court 
    sentenced Chukwudi Ikeazoba, Obinna Odugboemu, Abdulfatai Yinusa, 
    Tajudeen Ibrahim, Taiwo Adewale, David Otacheonyilo and Samuel 
    Ashari. They were to serve their term at the Kirikiri Maximum 
    Prisons. The court also ordered them to submit their passport 
    photographs and driver’s licences to it. 
Supo Shasore, State Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice 
    and Efunbowale Gbadebo, Director of Public Prosecution, DPP, were 
    in court to argue the matter. They were passing the message that 
    the government was serious about wiping out traffic misconduct. 
The accused earned lighter sentences as first offenders because 
    their offence, inconsiderate driving, was tried under the Lagos 
    State Road Traffic Law.  Had they been tried under the criminal 
    code, they would have gone to jail for six months. 
Road accidents arise from impatience, over speeding, reckless 
    and inconsiderate driving. All these are common practices in 
    Lagos.  At peak periods, some motorists delight in driving against 
    the traffic and creating more traffic havoc for law-abiding 
    drivers. Sometimes these dangerous drivers knock down commuters and 
    pedestrians at bus stops. 
The emergence of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, 
    the imposition of stiff fines and the introduction of psychiatric 
    tests failed to stem this misconduct. 
Nor has the conviction of seven men, whose impatience drove them 
    to jail, changed anything in the conduct of Lagos drivers. 
We had hoped that the prosecution of the offenders was a sign of 
    seriousness on the part of government. Almost two years after the 
    first move, reckless drivers are again allowed to operate as they 
    like. 
Many motorists believe that they can bribe their way of traffic 
    troubles when they are arrested. The effort at bringing sanity to 
    Lagos State roads by enforcing compliance with traffic rules should 
    continue. The Lagos State Government must not relent in the zeal to 
    restore sanity to Lagos roads. 
The same traffic laws should apply to the police and bullion van 
    drivers. On many occasions, these categories of drivers go against 
    the traffic, setting bad examples that other drivers copy. Even 
    uniformed men in commercial and private vehicles encourage their 
    drivers to flout traffic laws, as if the law is not for them. 
Provision of road signs would ensure fairness in this exercise 
    and deny suspects of any excuses for their conduct. 
Many Lagos roads are without vital signs to direct drivers and 
    save lives. Massive enlightenment campaigns are required to make 
    motor cycle riders, okada, realise that 
    they too are subject to traffic rules. They operate mostly above 
    the law. 
Another way to activate the campaign against traffic violation 
    is to publicise the sentencing of the seven and tell the public 
    about the implications of a jail sentence on one’s personal 
    record.
