Abduction of a monarch
A revolution consuming its own in the Niger 
    Delta?
When His Royal Highness, Simon Ebebi, the king of Elemebiri, in 
    Ekerema Local Government Area of Bayelsa State was kidnapped in his 
    home last Wednesday, the question being asked was if the Niger 
    Delta revolution is not consuming its children. Pa Ebebi is the 
    father of Bayelsa State Deputy governor, Mr. Peremebowei 
    Ebebi.
Three days before the incident, the government of Bayelsa State 
    entered into a ceasefire agreement with the militants. It is 
    certain now that the agreement is of no effect. The state 
    government ought not to have entered into any agreement with 
    criminal organisations. There are groups that have peacefully and 
    intelligently engaged the Nigerian State on the Niger Delta 
    question; therefore, if there should be any negotiation and 
    agreement, it should have been with such groups. It is well known 
    that criminal gangs operating in the Niger Delta under the façade 
    of'militancy' commit sundry criminal 
    acts to fund their operations and regrettably enjoy state patronage 
    as well.
These criminal gangs engage in economic sabotage by stealing 
    crude and refined fuel from pipelines; engage in armed robbery, 
    especially of banks and kidnap people for ransom. In the past, 
    kidnapping was restricted to foreigners, especially oil workers, 
    but now, the Niger Delta is feeding on itself. The criminals have 
    no sense of chivalry; they do not spare women, children or even the 
    aged.
The mask is off now and the motive behind their activities has 
    been exposed. They have been preying on the misfortune of the Niger 
    Delta to line their own pockets. This is condemnable. It is so sad 
    that their criminality has become the face of the struggles in the 
    Niger Delta.
The pattern of relationship the government of Bayelsa State 
    cultivates with them must change. The first step is to delegitimise 
    them. There should be no pact with criminal organisations. Giving 
    them money is counterproductive. It will reinforce in them the need 
    to continue on the criminal path, since it is profitable.
Secondly, the state must drain the swamp. There is too much 
    indolence in the Niger Delta. Oil is a God-given natural resource, 
    but it takes effort to benefit from it. No doubt the government 
    must invest in people. While we accelerate the demand for greater 
    control and share of the oil resources by the people of Niger 
    Delta, there should be accountability for the little that comes 
    in.
For instance, Bayelsa State collected N8.8 billion from 
    the Federation Account last month. With that modest income, it 
    should be able to provide free and compulsory education at all 
    levels for its citizens without external help. There is a 
    correlation between the criminality going on in the state and its 
    status as an educationally disadvantaged state. When the mind is 
    uncultivated, the devil will surely find good use for it.
Thirdly, the leaders of Niger Delta must also lay good examples 
    for the youth. There is too much looting of public resources by 
    governors and others. The message being passed to the youth is that 
    hardwork and diligence is the 
    wrong path to success. This offers criminal attraction for the 
    youth.
The kidnapping of the deputy governor’s father is a foretaste of 
    the progression of the evils of violent and criminal gangs in the 
    Niger Delta. It will only grow worse if it is not properly 
    addressed now. Throwing money at them is certainly not the 
    solution.
