Good riddance
Ruling on obnoxious Public Order Act is worth 
    celebrating
The civil society has rightly hailed the decision of the Court 
    of Appeal affirming the judgement of the Federal High Court, 
    consigning to the dust bin of 
    illegality, the infamous 
    provisions of the Public Order Act. The Act authorises the police 
    to issue or withhold permit for holding of public rallies and 
    processions.
The Nigerian opposition political parties under the aegis of 
    Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) had filed a suit 
    challenging the powers conferred on the police by the now extant 
    Act because the provisions contravene the 1999 Constitution and the 
    African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights. The Court of Appeal, 
    just like the High Court, was unequivocal in declaring this 
    provision as an anathema to the ethos of democratic practice.
We join other Nigerians in rejoicing at the demise of this 
    anachronistic provision. A cursory look at the provisions of the 
    Public Order Act, particularly sections 1-5, will reveal the 
    tragedy of public governance in Nigeria. It is unfortunate that 
    none of the law reforms of the past saw the need to abrogate the 
    provisions of the Act which are clearly tools 
    to suppress any form of dissent or opposition to those in power. It 
    leaves too much discretion in the hands of the police and the 
    governors, and was bound to be abused. It provided an opportunity 
    for the ruling parties across the country, in conjunction with the 
    police, to suppress opposition parties and became a tool for the 
    massive assault on the right to peaceful assembly and association 
    as eloquently provided for in S. 40 of our constitution. We 
    therefore salute the court for striking it down.
As a relic of colonial rule, the Public Order Act, particularly 
    the provisions restraining public procession and assembly, unless 
    with a police approval, is founded on the need to use the cheapest, 
    though crudest way to rein in any form of dissent or opposition to 
    the suppressive powers of the state. In modern societies, with the 
    aid of technological equipment, intelligence gathering and 
    preemptory capacity has replaced brawn and the brutal use of force 
    by law enforcement agents. The failure and inadequacies of the 
    Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies is at the root of 
    allowing this type of provision in our statute book.
The police are ill-equipped to engage in modern policing. They 
    lack data on criminal activities and criminals. The manpower is 
    poorly motivated and inadequately trained to gather and interpret 
    intelligence, and what we have is a reactionary police force 
    , that is always overwhelmed by everyday events. Those who 
    have called for a decentralised police have received scathing 
    criticism. But daily, the various state governments take 
    initiatives in providing the ever lacking equipment to the police 
    in their states, but without any form of control and discipline 
    over the personnel.
The exercise of fundamental right to associate and freedom of 
    movement cannot be sacrificed due to the failure or inability of 
    the state to live up to its responsibilities. The requirement of 
    the police approval or that of any authority to peacefully 
    assemble, meet or engage in procession has been declared 
    unconstitutional, and the police and other law enforcement agencies 
    must take heed and obey the judgement without any form of 
    derogation.
We wonder why the Inspector-General of Police would want to 
    challenge this progressive judgement. Nonetheless, it is gratifying 
    in that the challenge would enable us to hear the final word on the 
    matter from the apex court in the country. However, the empty boast 
    by the IG that the police will continue to exercise the power even 
    if they lose at the Supreme Court, is enough reason to earn him a 
    reprimand.
