The Apapa – Oshodi Nightmare
One of the inexplicable paradoxes of the Nigerian situation is 
    our penchant for neglecting our proverbial geese that give us 
    golden eggs. The gross underdevelopment of the Niger Delta and the 
    impoverishment of its citizens, despite the fact that the region 
    gives the nation the bulk of its yearly revenue, is a case in 
    point.  
The other case is the Apapa maritime district, generally 
    regarded as the economic nexus of the nation. Despite the fact that 
    this axis harbours two of the nation’s major sea ports, which 
    together handle more than 60 per cent of the export – import 
    activities in the country, it appears to have receded in 
    government’s reckoning.  Its link road has been abandoned over the 
    years with its resultant collapse and the dotting of major portions 
    of the highway by potholes and craters that make it mostly 
    impassable even at the best of times. 
The Apapa – Oshodi Expressway, a federal highway, is not only an 
    eye sore, it has in fact become a long stretch of death trap and a 
    cog, rather than a facilitator, to smooth movement of people and 
    goods to and from the nation’s busiest sea ports ---- the Apapa and 
    Tin Can Island Ports. 
Such is the level of dilapidation of this road that anytime it 
    rains, the entire stretch becomes a huge whirlpool inside which an 
    armada of vehicles of all shapes and sizes forage for rights of way 
    with attendant chaos. Indeed, the chaos that motorists daily 
    experience on this road is enough to discourage anybody from 
    venturing into the ports, a situation that could have very grave 
    consequences for the nation’s economy. 
The problem is often compounded by the ubiquitous trucks and 
    petrol tankers, most of which are rickety and often bearing 
    carelessly strapped containers that trip off at will and fall over 
    unsuspecting smaller cars, causing uncountable fatalities in the 
    process. 
Also contributory to the chaotic situation in Apapa is the 
    massive distortion of its original master plan with the 
    indiscriminate siting of tank farms in mostly built-up and already 
    congested areas. 
To be sure, the problem of Apapa did not just start yesterday. 
    It has been there for some time, especially since the past 10 
    years. The flagrant neglect of this economically crucial road 
    defies any logical explanation. Such is the levity with which the 
    federal government takes this road that it didn’t consider it 
    necessary to include Apapa expressway in the N373 billion mega 
    contracts it recently awarded for the construction, rehabilitation 
    and expansion of various roads across the six geo-political zones 
    of the country. 
Not even the recent precipitate directive by the Presidency to 
    the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) to “take immediate 
    measures to commence limited maintenance works” on the road could 
    solve Apapa’s problem. To us, the directive appears too superfluous 
    and, if carried out at all, would only amount to scratching the 
    problem on the surface. For, what that road urgently requires is a 
    comprehensive reconstruction or at worst serious rehabilitation and 
    not mere patchworks.  
We therefore urge the federal government to view the Apapa – 
    Osodi road as a national disaster that requires emergency solution. 
    If not for any other thing but for the huge economic loss that the 
    present state of the road is causing the nation on a daily basis, 
    that road deserves a priority attention from government. 
Also, the menace of trucks and fuel tankers on the ever-busy 
    road could be curbed by putting serious measures in place that 
    would check the operations of decrepit and rickety haulage 
    vehicles. These should be barred from plying such a busy road. But 
    the ultimate solution to this menace is the rehabilitation of the 
    rail system, which is a more dependable and safer means of 
    transporting bulk goods and petroleum products. Nigerians are tired 
    of the rhetorics about putting back the railways on track. The 
    railways must be fully rehabilitated as soon as possible to remove 
    some of the pressures on road transportation. This will also have 
    the added advantage of helping to prolong the life spans of the 
    roads. 
