The CBN Cap on Lending
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) moved decisively last month to 
    limit business of banks with their preferred customers in the 
    public sector. And all things being equal, as it is said in 
    economics, it will make some more room for the private sector that 
    had been crowded out of the banking halls.
The public sector, particularly the states, had always found 
    ready support in banks for funding real and sometimes non-existing 
    projects. Some banks were even known to lobby states into doing 
    business with them. Traditionally, banks make money by accepting 
    deposits and lending with some level of assurance that the loans 
    would be paid back. Understandably, the likelihood of a lower rate 
    of default by the public sector makes it more attractive to 
    lending.
This position may have been reinforced by the current heavy 
    banks’ exposure to margin loans and lending to the downstream 
    petroleum sector. Indeed, according to the CBN, banking sector 
    credit to the private sector grew just 0.3 per cent to about 
    N8 billion in the first quarter of the year, compared to some 25 
    per cent growth in the same period of 2008.
With tightening liquidity arising from the global financial 
    crisis and even more pressing regulation of the new CBN Governor, 
    Lamido Sanusi, the private sector was at greater risk until the 
    intervention of the bank.
In a widely reported circular, the CBN directed that “granting 
    of credits to all tiers of government and their agencies” requires 
    banks to make provision of 50 per cent and 100 per cent for 
    performing and non-performing credits, respectively is revised as 
    follows:
“Banks are now to apply the normal provisions of the prudential 
    guidelines to all public sector credits. However, a maximum limit 
    of 10 per cent of the total credit portfolio should be placed on 
    public sector credits, both on-and-off balance sheet.
“Where the existing credit limit to the public sector has 
    exceeded the prescribed maximum limit of 10 per cent, it should be 
    brought down to the maximum limit of 10 per cent by December 31, 
    2009.”
This is consistent with government’s economic policy thrust 
    which recognizes the private sector as the only reliable engine of 
    growth, and also Sanusi’s concern for the overall growth of the 
    economy.
We commend the bank for this timely intervention, believing that 
    since banks must lend to make money, they would be forced to give 
    the private sector better attention.
Already the states had been exploring funding opportunities in 
    the banks following their shrinking revenues from the statutory 
    allocation from the federal government. The Federation Account 
    Allocation Committee (FAAC) attributed the revenue decline to 
    fluctuating crude oil prices and Nigeria's inability to meet 
    its OPEC production quota due to the Niger Delta crisis.
The revenue shared by the three tiers each month, which peaked 
    at over N450billion last 
    year, reduced to about N200 billion in the first half of this 
    year.
Commendable as the new directive is, we believe that it may not 
    be a one-capsule cure for the funding problems of the private 
    sector. Desperate attempts by the banks to meet various CBN 
    requirements being enforced to sanitise the sector appears to have 
    frozen capital flows, and curtailed lending.
For example, interbank lending rates have been on the rise as 
    some major banks are holding back funds to balance their books 
    ahead of quarterly and full-year financial reports. Since the 
    beginning of the year, investors have been complaining about high 
    lending rates, rising in some cases to as high as 35 per cent. And 
    with tightening liquidity, the CBN caps introduced some months ago 
    has even served to nourish the black market.
We, however, believe that while the directive may not yield 
    immediate benefits to the private sector, it certainly will after 
    the current liquidity crisis in the system. It is a well 
    thought-out directive in the overall interest of the economy.
