Moral obligation
Liberian president must step down to facilitate the 
    healing process.
It is unfortunate that while democracy is taking root in less 
    endowed West African countries, Nigeria, the so-called giant of 
    Africa is reeling in political stupor. Not long ago, Ghana 
    conducted a world-class election, with the opposition party 
    winning. Now, it is Liberia that is taking the politically correct 
    channel of extricating itself from the tragedy of the years of 
    civil war in that country, through a process of reconciliation that 
    may see the president sacrificed.
Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, the Liberian president has been asked to 
    resign by the country’s opposition party, following her indictment 
    by the country’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), for her 
    role in supporting Charles Taylor’s gang which fought the country’s 
    government for years. Appearing before the commission, Mrs. 
    Johnson-Sirleaf acknowledged that she donated up to $10,000 to the 
    rebel group during the war. The commission recommended that she, 
    like many other high profile persons, should be barred from holding 
    political office for 30 years.
It is interesting that it was President Johnson-Sirleaf that set 
    up the commission to heal the wounds of the many years of strife in 
    that country. More interestingly, however, is that if the country’s 
    parliament adopts the recommendation, it may become law, which 
    should force her out of power. But should she wait for that? We 
    think otherwise. Her voluntary resignation will further the healing 
    process.
So far, the president’s spokesperson said that she will study 
    the report and then react to it. But we know that it if were in a 
    less democratic environment like ours, it would have been the 
    correct sound bite to call the commission’s members traitors who 
    are bent on fomenting trouble for government, instead of addressing 
    the issues raised in the report. Even the call by the opposition 
    for the president to step down will become a treasonable felony in 
    the eyes of the power apparatchik.
It is on record that our own commission, otherwise referred to 
    as the Oputa panel, did not have as much courage, but even its own 
    findings and recommendations have yielded little. Despite receiving 
    summons, former military ruler, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida 
    refused to appear before the panel to answer his indictment over 
    the annulment of the June 12 election, among others. Then President 
    Olusegun Obasanjo went there to abuse anyone who disagreed with 
    him.
The South African Truth Commission fared better than ours, even 
    if it did not make such profound recommendations as the Liberian 
    commission. It is encouraging that the chairman of the Liberian 
    commission, Jerome Verdier, has vowed to stand by his 
    commision’s 
    recommendations, and will not be swayed even though the report has 
    embarrassed the president. He believes their job will benefit 
    Liberia, not men and women at the corridors of power.
We join in calling on President Johnson-Sirleaf to resign, to 
    enable a thorough healing of the Liberian land. She needs nobody to 
    remind her that by supporting the murderous Taylor gang, she has 
    blood on her hand as much as the actual killers the money she 
    contributed was used to pay to do the job. By resigning, she would 
    have made an important sacrifice to the remaking of a peaceful and 
    prosperous Liberia.
But if she decides to play the African big man, who believes the 
    rules are made for others, then the Liberian parliament should 
    summon the courage to kick her out of office. Her continued 
    presence will only generate more rancour as her moral authority has 
    been injured by the findings.
It is better if past sins are interred with their perpetrators, 
    no matter how highly placed.
