well it seems the the Ghanaians erm on a good day if they were the team erm under pressure the team that erm really was winning here erm I think erm they sh- would have been much more erm urgent and erm tearing in their moves decision making is essential in football when you have a chance like that you have to decide erm whether to take a direct shot at goal or across but he was caught in between the a- attacking erm with a direct shot at goal or or making across erm that was a moment of indecision for him it's all square the Ghanaians lots coming the Togolese trying and erm in a few occasions they have really opened a different ? ? Djene Ortega fifteen minutes ? in the first quarter of the game or the third first erm fifteen minutes you've seen here ? erm no incident that will make the game a difficult one for him Adjei ? Osei oh Ghanaians will have a corner kick the Ghanaians are also of a a approximate strategy that erm erm is built on erm will play the attacking most of the time from the wings the Togolese still ? hard Ajara ? ? that's a chance there that should be the ? ? the Ghanaian defender erm they were really hot to work harder and ensure that they open up the space before it's in the goal ? captain of the side erm will be picked off signs that ? his coach chairman ? erm actually erm backing instructions Daniel Adjei technique kick-out Ouro-Akoriko the central defence man for the Togolese has done well it is Ghana looking good ? goal oh no it's ? been a contest in the it looks so good Togolese within the Ghanaians too will have to find a cutting edge if they wanna score here they want to defend Togolese attack pulling off again that will be the Ghanaians ? yes erm but well the referee is actually a- ? him for simulation but it's a long way ? to some people would be a victim of erm a bad call by the referee was at the e- ? back erm did show something that looks like it was genuinely ? but then it helps to respect the referee's call erm Sename Wome Dové erm ? forcing the attack for the folks of Togo is out now and they are in the ? containing erm this Ghanaians ? the attacking itself into some form of ? with this game on here at the ? Abiola stadium in Abeokuta south west of Nigeria championship it's the twenty eleven edition action game between the Hawks of Togo and the Black Stars of Ghana Black Stars and really have their noses in front as far as the first encounter between them is presented won by two goals to one and the Togolese who used to tell them would have to change the game over two lefts Kondo Arimiyaou  offended and the eh he goes into the ? as well erm Kwakuku Andoh bear with heart of lion that was a really ? challenge he's have the yellow red's going erm it is very likely we see another red card maybe for the Ghanaian ? have to clear his lines ? James goalkeeper ? an infringement had been spotted earlier on cross field pass Andoh Joshua Otto Edward Kpodo the Ghanaians finding some fluidity in their play now we- well you've said it they're not a team that is under pressure they're not a team that is in the ? position here they're not a team that w- that erm that wants to avoid Nigeria and erm and erm that's the team that erm anybody who say erm they need to win this game to qualify for the semi-final well they almost positively go there the Togolese are the most under pressure the pressure is only pushing them ? calling for the directly tight ? but one except that ? that attacker in the middle was thinking erm tha- that was erm Gueoje Cyril and I had expected Wome Sename Dové to know that the only team that would ? of the right flank was going to be ? an attempt to ? no goal situation this is traditional Ghanaian way of play and erm it is not surprising to see they're trying to do it from the wings but i- if if I give a look at the the the Togo- the Togolese they seem to ? this like clogging their the the centre of their defence with very very tall defenders and that is giving the Ghanaians a lot of problems ? they're for here Ghanaians in Nigeria in ? it's not a way a ? to find support whenever a Ni- a Ghanaian team is in Nigeria while the Black Stars of Ghana anyway they go especially between the ? West African subregion they're sure to have their own citizens erm but erm I said that last year's followership was more and erm and erm more more foreign supporters turned out most of who were arrested in Nigeria for instance in ? the Liberian community in ? who came out in a mass to support Liberia and that's also ? have been good erm in this year's competition ? Ghana to to come out ? look erm to not because of their their resident population in this part of Nigeria erm they they they have to find a cutting edge and erm erm and it is not easy for them finding that cutting edge you see the Togolese are mussing their defence especially ? the ball is in the opponents' side and they're here you need some very long ? ability in order to break down that kind of erm erm ? but I've not seen Ghan- the Ghanaian take any decent shot I've got to I'm not I'm not a ? soccer every defence ? yes that is what the rule says you want to illegally commit the referee to award the penalty you get a yellow card and that is very sad number ten Jesse Wome Sename Dové and that is the red card because you have already gotten a yellow card in the course of the game how do you explain this ? some people will say that ? home trouble so to say how do you explain that the best ? and the ? you are looking forward to in erm in in in in the total to ? this game have just re-issued the red card erm less than forty five minutes of play and and and the and and for no other reason other than simulating ? trying to ? the referee to to to favour you with a decision thi- this is gonna be sad for the Togolese and I don't know how they're going to content with this we find issue that is gonna be debated in the erm in the for a long time especially in the course of this competition if referees here are not going to award penalty why award the yellow card ? especially when we know that that is the second if it would affect I didn't see much of simulation there myself I saw erm a genuine attempt to stop the erm the attacker for which the referee did not consider a penalty erm the the rules the international football body the IFD will have to take a second look at this simulation theory where players are sent out unnecessarily and that brings well erm the the yellow cards are flowing and the the the referee erm Mohamed Soumah from Guinea he's trying to ? his authority on the game as much as possible so I won't be surprised if I i- if a another red card is issued in the course of this game 