the attack all the goal so far
having come in the first half five goals in all
erm Nigeria
tied to this game they have conceded only one goal in the tournament
but today they've conceded three
and erm the Togolese don't look like taking their foot off the trigger it's a free kick to Togo
and that man will keep earning free kicks
he's probably the trickiest player on the field here today
and Zack Morou
is his name
he is nineteen years of age
he has  three caps for the main Togo team
and he's the captain here today
plays for Liberty Professionals in
Ghana
a fantastic player by all standard
it's a free kick to Togo
well the way he's playing you will think he has the basket full of hats already
and he plays with so much experience
so much fun
so much commitment as well
now it's a free kick to Togo
James ?
as the goalkeeper comes out here Sunday Rotimi has missed the ball completely
wrong timing there from him
Osas Okoro is able to keep the ball in
and erm
the Eagles
a limited pair of the play
big tackle coming from erm the Togolese Les Epeviers
Osas Okoro went down
there is a throw-in
to the Hawks of Togo
who are
three two better than the Super Eagles of Nigeria
at this moment
if you think erm Sunday Rotimi has been fumbling in this game
this is the reserve goalkeeper for Nigeria
?
and recall what Samson Siasia did say about  ? at the erm Olympics
he says he has a way of giving out Christmas gifts
erm that was comes a tricky one
and erm Sunday Rotimi holds it
well
Zakari Morou was erm
tumbling i- they're they are throwing themselves in Kamikaze style
and body check
body check from ?
who is erm really angered by that
and was almost going to get erm
the referee even angrier
Black Charlie is from ?
now the Togolese are playing all sorts of crafts they can
erm when the argument
is going on they will throw the ball far into the entire stand
erm ? takes some time to get the ball back
?  back into the game as well
it is ten men on either side one having been sent off on each side
Stanley Okoronkwo is standing over the ball for a free kick
to enforce to the Super Eagles of Nigeria
and time is also ticking away it's sixty-third minute now
and about twenty seven minutes left
left to play
erm twenty seven minutes during which quite a lot  could still change in this game
meanwhile it's Stanley Okoronkwo with the free kick
does he want to go direct
it's set to go direct but it's over the bar
and it's erm de- difficult to kick to get down but he took a deflection
so it's a a corner kick to Nigeria
corner kick to Nigeria Ejike Uzoenyi is there
two balls on the field
one has to be gotten rid of
and a short pass
a short corner kick from Ejike Uzoenyi to Osas Okoro
Uzoenyi file the ball across
and right in
just one yard
from the goal line
just one is this
slammed over the bar
and they will still want to pardon him because se- is a certain
Ekigho Ehiosun
and so Nigerians will say well
we know that he can do better than that
Osas Okoro made a pass straight to ? that erm
a quick threatening run
and erm one would think that erm
? would have gone in
but then the keeper if he also set foot
he didn't put the foot the way he wanted
and it went over
and it's Nigeria trying to come back a good pass coming there a big shot  it was meant there for
Adedeji
he didn't get him
and the defence is a little bit erm
erm
feeling depleted at the moment
and that pass
luckily for the Eagles at least at the moment
and it was between the legs it was attempted to
it's a free kick
just on the edge of the penalty box and the man that won it for them again is erm
Senah Mowe Meduge
let's take a look at that again
and there
okay
just a few inches and he was erm
another ten
inches
we would have been talking about a penalty but then
it is a free kick to Togo
and the way it is positioned
knowing it is definitely going to be taken by that man with a bullet a rocket of a shot
skipper of the side erm
Zakari Morou
it's erm almost looking like a penalty kick to me
it's so close to the goal
and erm I'm sure he would fancy his chances of going straight for goal
with that one
it tacks it thunderbolts in that left foot of his
and there he unleashes it but over the bar
and I'm sure a lot of Nigerians are breathing much easier now
good defending from Jaiyeola that time
?
he turns very well and a pass to Ekigho Ehiosun
Ehiosun wants to grumble through
and erm the corner kick
each time that man get close to the ball
everybody in the opponent's defence begins to panic
and why not
they have good reason to
that corner kick had been taken very quickly and the referee doesn't think there was any
body check there
and he allowed play to continue
erm Togo coming forward again
holding on to the ball expecting to be let down
and that man is coming through
his name is Philip Oje
and the goalkeeper came out inexplicably
he was looking confused
and erm
I think I think he was looking confused as well
seeing ?  get this half
slam into his defender
and then he would have gone on ahead unchallenged with the ball
Ejike Uzoenyi
there's a good run between him
and he's brought down and drilled pulled down on the same time
by ?
and again those eagles are coming forward more and more
Uzoenyi now
a pass from ?
it's a corner kick Super Eagles
that was a poor corner
went straight to the opponent
and it is erm
? that got the ball
and sends it forward to his keeper Muwagbe
Muwa wants to continue that from
and almost did
well it is erm
po- poor defending from Julius Ubido there
he put it right to the path of Wome Dové who with experience
guessed he was going to go that way
and erm Gweje
and it is Gweje now  the flag is off against ? Gweje offside
and that Super Eagle is left scrawling
his name is Adeyinka Adedeji
Adeyinka Adedeji
did a good job and ? at that time but ?
it was off-side for
and he sort it out
?
off-side
a free kick another yellow card is coming out to an for the Togolese again
yellow card to Togo's number four shirted erm the player who came on as a substitute
for Kodjo Amétépé
Kodjo Amétépé
picked up a yellow card that's deliberate hand ball says the referee
and the free kick coming the way of the Super Eagles
erm we've seen sixty eight minute gone
and it is three-two in favour of Togo
it is still of course the final of the second edition of WAFU nations cup
here in Abeokuta
and that one is deep hole
? Togolese on the defence
erm than the attacking
erm some of the attackers of Nigeria getting to the ball much more easily
and erm
well
a little bit lackadaisical on the part of Yusuf Jaiyeola
Adeyinka Adedeji
Ejike Uzoenyi
Uzoenyi is brought down
and it's a late late  tackle
Adedekin
taking the ball to Julius Ubido
Ubido is almos- almost being outpaced
and that one is carved in rather trickily
but no problem for goal keeper Mamu- Mawugbe Atsou
for Togo
quick counter attack initiated by Togo now
and erm that man Lalawele
well
he's been
he's stung Nigeria twice
the defenders are quite weary of him now
and that's why Soriola wasn't going to we- well sorry that's Sowemimo
wasn't going to take any chances at all
and Samson Siasia 
still fighting his tongue
as Nigeria is still down by three goals to two
Togo are unrelenting
throw-in to Nigeria
and the man that is down there he rules back from outside into the field erm onto the pitch
and then he wants to get some time off
and attention is called
and he saw when he landed
and somehow a ? was right inside the pitch
on the pitch
and erm
erm therefore to bring play to a stop momentarily
while time keeps ticking away
and while Madam Togo
erm looks erm
calm maybe deceptively calm
because we know where her sympathies lie obviously
and there she is again
passive mood
of erm Nigerian fans too
and the fore pass from Julius Ubido
Adeyinka Adedeji is brought down
and I think a card is coming out now
it is a card a yellow card to
Sename Wome Dove
it was a late tackle on Adeyinka Adedeji
and the card
now start piling up for the Togolese
? stretched out his leg erm too far of that time catching Adedeji
and the free kick to Nigeria taken by Adedeji
Ubido
what a very good pass from Ubido
it was a bit far from Yusuf Jaiyeola
and that's ? beating three men everybody in his path
it doesn't matter how many of you are there
it doesn't matter who you are
and that time I think he's going to try to outpace everybody
but look at him dancing around with the ball
good thing he'd be brought down
and there in the end th-
well
giving away a free kick himself
perhaps he tried just that little bit too much
and the referee wouldn't have known that
eighteen more minutes
eighteen more minutes for Nigeria to get back a
eighteen more minutes to round off two thousand and eleven WAFU cup
perhaps we might add eighteen more minutes for Samson Siasia to maintain his hundred per cent record
let this not go down to his first defeat as coach
of the Super Eagles of Nigeria
and a good stoppage there by Sorinmode
Julius Ubido has been on the top for some time
erm he's picked himself back up
but they have been momentarily stopped
because he was clutching his head and referees don't hesitate when it is a head injury
and erm on the other side
oh
around the same area really is the other player
Atakora Lalawele
of Togo who is out on the pitch
and with stretcher
and it's gonna be from him
Togo seize every opportunity to waste a couple of minutes
actually Togolese football
been on the rise for quite some time since qualifying for the two thousand six world cup
but then they didn't win any game there
losing to Korea two one
lost to Switzerland two nil
and lost to France two nil
and of course
one interesting aspect of Togo football is the fact that erm
a certain Togo team played against Bahrain
on the seventh of September
and on the fourteenth of September the FA claimed it was a fake Togo team
and on the twentieth it was revealed that it was erm
one coach Bana
Tchanile
who was responsible
he was banned for three years
and this Togo team today
have really been
holding their own
and a long-range effort again from that man Zakari Morou 
he wants to try it from e- everywhere
he wants to catch the goal keeper as much off
guard as possible
and erm a number of times he almost succeeded
and it is Togo coming forward ? was almost erm
been stopped there by Adeyinka Adedeji
erm no problem for the Super Eagles ? except that they are one goal short of erm
the Togolese
and one expects a header backwards towards the goal keeper
from erm Sowemimo
well just a quarter of an hour left
for Nigeria
well the assistant referee has been holding his flag up I'm sure for a long long while before he was not noticed by the centre referee
and so when the player was stopped
nobody really
around the area where the ball was had any idea why the whistle had sounded
and erm that erm another mark of erm
breakdown in communication between the centre referee and his assistants perhaps
but Nigeria coming erm
closer and closer
to conceding this one to Togo
and Togolese we must say have played extremely well in this competition
another opportunity for
Sena- oh Sename Wome
Dove Sename Wome he got that one erm woefully wrong that time
great opportunity to increase the tally against Nigeria
and don't forget the semi-finals were fought through their way against Liberia
a three two against Nigeria now do they want to do an encore you might want to ask
well that remains to be seen
and that will be a killer
indeed
throw-in to Nigeria they are many in hurry now a quick one erm
back to Adeji- Adedeji
Adedeji going forward
and heads getting together there I'm sure Ekigho Ehiosun had no notion where the ball was
giving a way to Jaiyeola
for Nigeria to continue the attack
White Agwuocha
and it's Osas Okoro
Osas Okoro chosen
a good ball then the header coming
a safe header
taking it away
otherwise erm Ejike Uzoenyi was zooming but the same Gweje
he looks up and sees his captain goes for Zakari Morou
and is end-to-end stop now riveting stop we have here
and Stanley Okoronkwo a good one going to Ejike Uzoenyi
Uzoenyi pluck the ball after a quarter a head ?
and Eagles backline is a little bit depleted now
it's four against three
and erm that coming forward a good defending
solitary from Adeyinka Adediji
White Agwuocha Osas Okoro
going through there now
Osas Okoro goes down
and it's a corner kick to the Eagles
that's ? Eagles with here right now Eagles in flight
Osas Okoro with a corner kick
from the far side
rolls it on the top and White Agwuocha misses completely
and it was one roll forward to him
beautifully
for the man at the end of erm the other side now
is Lalawelé
Lalawelé was almost going through
and erm he stays there the ball gets to him finally he gets active
and the flag goes up
off-side
that was some defending by Julius Ubido
had to roll himself on the top try to get the ball
Tchanile Tchakalala
is the happier of the two coaches at this point
but Samson Siasia still has about twelve minutes
the Eagles' attack caught to be flat footed there
they thought they had a good opportunity
and a good round from Gweje
and a hand across the left from erm
Wasiu Sowemimo I would have thought the referee would actually reach for his yellow card there
it was so glaring
somehow he seems to have gotten away with that
and that man who is so good at going down
had more reason to even do so look at that
he was just following him as if they were friends who really were attracted toward each other
but erm
but no such thing until after the final whistle
it is erm
?
all instruments
every instrument
being used here to urge the Super Eagles on
and erm the bench of erm Togo
the
players on the bench
really urgently are calling for
? is still down
the angers of
? player
gets up finally
and the player seizing opportunity to have a drink of water
another player goes down
Togo can seize every opportunity they have to waste erm some couple of minutes of
and the referee will have no
none of this at all
as Tchaline Tchakalala keeps checking his time
time and time again
this time it is
? that erm decides to walk out on is own
Zakari Morou the free kick
and he was going to shoot the kick around of erm
?
he didn't get that right and don't forget that Nigeria are the defending champions of this tournament
the Togolese is just trying to upstage them
and erm White Agwuocha is all alone
loose shot and he misses that too and erm rather easily
good play from ? Togo now
and erm good defending from Adedeji
leaving his man ? White Agwuocha to Osas Okoro
Okoro would want to run forward
I know he'll take a shot I thought he was going to take a shot
and that shot wasn't forthcoming
White Agwuocha has an opportunity
and a good one and that man was trying to put it away
Osa- oh Ekigho Ehiosun
he took time to swerve before he hit that ball
enough time for Togo to grab it and defend massively and beautifully
they didn't need to stop the ball
all they needed to do was drop it into the net
but he decided to stop
turned around
take a look around again
the cross came in but erm
it wasn't erm too good enough for Ekigho Ehiosun the four goals came so far in this tournament
the referee says the corner kick has to be retaken
attack man kicks comes trooping in on erm
E-
Ehiosun almost got his head to it
but the goalkeeper
grows tired
it pounded away
and it's Togo fancying a counter attack now
oh
goal well taken care of there against Wome
and it's a counter attack coming
Sename Wome
and the goalkeeper is off his side
and Togo want to come for the fourth goal
and they almost got that in but
wasted in the end by
Sename Wome Dove
inexplicably
and that ? Sunday ? his ?
well it's another though they had ? there
he had another player to make it faster but he decided to go it alone
and erm his ? was too weak
and Sunday Rotimi ?
and the Eagles again
nobody needs charge they are in a hurry
and erm the player goes down Ejike Uzoenyi knocking ? there it's a freekick to Togo
and Togo effecting yet another substitution here
and substitution I think is the man who got two goals for them
that has been shipped up now
and erm maybe a strengthening the defence
and bringing on their number eleven shirted player
Kondo Arimiyaou
another
very tall person now in the midfield
and I'm surprised that erm Arimiyaou
was left on the bench for so long
right now coach Tchanile has decided to bring the man on the man that plays for Okiti
football club in Togo
erm ? to come in to get in from ? the Togo league was last held in two thousand nine
but now he's got to come on
Kondo Arimiyaou
let's see what he's got
and he's got a lot
I know
confirmation for you there
Kondo Arimiyaou coming on for Atakora Lalawele
and it's erm going to be a throw-in to the Eagles
throw-in to the Super Eagles
a lot of interference coming from Togo
and erm the ball fold it is the man that you
Ekigho Ehiosun who stops that ball
Ehiosun send it to far away
through
it didn't get to its intended target erm Osas Okoro who in any case
gets the ball
erm he decides to play around with it ?
good pass threaded through there
and erm good defending from Togo
Nigerian attacker there was wrestled down
but erm that was erm actually the
the man from behind
erm talking about erm Yusuf Jaiyeola
but erm
everybody had to join the attack that time
because we have erm just about seven minutes of normal time left here
it is Togo three
Nigeria two
and the Togo
furiously
seriously coming
and they have so many men
in numbers now
Togo away
it gets opportunity
are we going to see another goal
get tackle excellent tackle there
it's Arimiyaou the newcomer
and it would seem that Wasiu Sowemino just allowed
took everything he got into that tackle
and you can see
Togolese thinking about what could have been
Arimiyaou got a good pass
he was erm too slow for my liking that time
and erm clumsily
but good tackle
Sowemimo his legs first to the ball
great defending
it's a corner kick to Togo
at a anxious time anxious moments for Nigeria
it's almost over game and a goal
? coming on the goal keeper
and that was as a result of a great miss by Zakari Morou
otherwise he was almost at the end of that one
and it could have been long damages for Nigeria
it should have been erm game set and match really
as far as this tight fixtures is concerned
and the Togolese are not done yet Arimiyaou
finding ? the far side long and good pass
Togo looking good again
erm sending forward
and the goal keeper was always gonna get there before Arimiyaou
not the fastest of men from what we have seen in these previous games
well you see what he's been able to bring into the game he has rejuvenated the Togo side
and they they're having the upper hand right now
but here comes Nigeria
Osas Okoro
and again good defending from Togo
it's a throw-in to Nigeria
very solid defending from that substitute Kodjo Ametepe
how close that one came and yet
and it's a corner kick
Nigeria really knocking on the door
? now
? very little ? long long while
and White Agwuocha with the corner kick
not enough men in the box there
yellow shirts and green shirts
it's a lob forward but ? was really close to the ball
and Sowemimo
on the far side finding Ejike Uzoenyi
Uzoenyi tosses the ball forward
and a header from Osas ? Ekigho Ehiosun
just went over the bar
Ehiosun was straining he was rather pushed
? the goalkeeper ? to him but erm
he just missed the target that time
and nothing at this point can deceive the referee
? but not strong enough for any call of a penalty
inside the last five minutes here
it's looking gloomy for the Super Eagles
it's looking gloomy for Samson Siasia
it's looking truly bad for the record that that man has erm ? for himself
and it's a free kick to Nigeria
good play acting there if you ask me from Adeyinka Adedeji
and he got the call he wanted
remember the Super Eagles forced an equaliser
late in the game against Ghana
erm in the semi finals
and therefore can they force a lot of equaliser here
? was trying to thread the ball from between erm the legs of a defender
and it ? and the Eagles no time to waste
Ejike Uzoenyi
he wants to send the ball across ? quickly
and it's a quickest down shot
and the ball keeps ?
and the referee says play on
and the Nigerians were hoping for a penalty call
it doesn't terminate Ejike Uzoenyi with an opportunity
he wants to walk through
I know that was what he was going to attempt
it's a corner kick to the Eagles
?
?
really frantic football we're watching here
and the Eagles fighting for their lives
the Eagles fighting for their title
the Eagles fighting for their record
the Eagles fighting for all their worth ? not very easy against this resilient
Hawks of Togo
Osas Okoro with a corner kick
and there it goes
it's a corner kick
and heads go up
and again the head gets it over the bar it is a
a ?
but not before
and the goalkeeper is not in a hurry to get the ball there
and Samson Siasia is telling his players
look we have just about this many minutes four minutes left
and in the end he has less than that because it's less than three minutes now
and erm the Togolese trying to go forward again
tha- their captain Zakari Morou
was erm trying to
stea- steam at them again 
and see what damage he could do
? have been up for a long long time
but it's not exactly that here
and the Eagles just barely managing to control that ? and get it back to goal keeper Sunday Rotimi
it's frenetic action here now
erm it is Eagles fighting desperately
and oh almost giving away there
and Ade- Adeyinka Adedeji was almost careless erm Ralph
erm erm trapped aside on the ? eh
while he did it Sunday Rotimi should have been playing that time because erm instead of kicking the ball outside to make a pass to Adedeji
and Ejike Uzoenyi is erm
is that the man you get the better of ? when he has the ball really
he either beats you
or you bring him down and commit a foul
that's how good he is
and I'm told he's nineteen years old
well
less than two minutes erm
between erm the Eagles and defeat they're staring it erm clearly defeat here
they got erm a last gasp
re- redemption against Ghana in the semi finals
and the cloud was a little bit slow in going up there
and I know that man was going to toss the ball one more time
and erm we are looking forward to the additional time there might be just a tiny bit of it
but perhaps not that much
Sir ? a worried man standing been standing there for quite a long time
but the Super Eagles they got a chance
erm it's a corner kick
that's where the chance resulted in
less than seventy five seconds of normal time left
time is ticking away
and it's as if you can hear it go tic toc tic toc
and it's just running down
and the Eagles erm the the Hawks
clinging on tenaciously
the Eagles erm fighting back like wounded Eagles
I wouldn't say wounded lions here
erm they are both erm
back to prayer
and erm that one is keeping everybody
it is
a really Yahweh that God is true to it
erm Samson Siasia was almost turning ? there
but that erm
a sign of the anxiety he must be feeling Adeyinka Adedeji
lobbed the ball forward
the Togolese would always get the aerial balls they're taller
and erm they use it too well
and that one was a shot one expected to come from Osasa Okoro it wasn't a shot finally
and ? sends it across
and a header comes
and the goalkeeper
clutches it out of the air
and I think he might have had his eyes shut when he caught that one
whatever happens somehow
you can see a bemused
bemused Ekigho Ehiosun really just looking down
he can't believe where the where the ball was a
the ? time that they stopped the ball from going in and erm the goal keeper they held a rebound
to the
surprise of erm Ekigho Ehiosun
Ekigho Ehiosun ? that would have been a priceless priceless one for the Eagles
it was not forthcoming
he hit the upright that time again
and in half confirmation
scoring it to the end of it all
and the first of those four minutes already running
and it's Togo still holding on Wome Dove
? forward
and that man getting just getting his head to it was a ? Zakari Morou
and erm Stanley Okoronkwo is brought down it's a free kick to the Eagles
is quickly taken Osasa Okoro
nobody very close to him except erm
Jaiyeola
Jaiyeola is erm
judged to have fouled against his opponent there
and ? was going to and again of course erm trust the Togolese
added time has been announced
and that player just goes down
but his his
well I'm sure he's not too sure
where to hold onto
is it the knee
is it the calf
is it the ankle
and erm
?
?
?
that's the way it is
anyway he holds his ? just for him
if you remember the
street song my belle my head
I still want my head
and some of the spec- spectators erm have erm seen enough
that man has erm almost seen enough as well
his name is Tchanile Tchakalala
we must give him credit for tactical awareness
but it is Togo almost trying to
Wome Dove
and the ball is given away by Sowemimo to ?
is a cross
and again the goal keeper fails to clutch the ball
he got to it
he couldn't hold it
a retreat for the Eagles who gonna get a free kick
well
very poor goalkeeping ? from Sunday Rotimi this afternoon
erm Togo
wanting to make it four just like they did against Liberia
in the semifinals
and the ?
in face of what they have been able to put in here it might just say that erm Togo have not been erm
totally undeserving
of erm where they find themselves now
and they find themselves well positioned
Stanley Okoronkwo was toeing the ball forward
there is Togo
Togolese coming to get over the Nigerian it was always going to be a clash and the Nigerian was close Adedeji was always going to get to the ball first
and that man threw himself at him
and erm
he struggles back to his feet
and it's going to be
? Nigerian ?
Osasa Okoro
shouldn't have done that
he should have given the ball back to Yusuf Jaiyeola who was right in front of him
you don't try that again that man even though you are wearing the same jersey number as he does
his name is Zakari Morou
and he has erm
taken care of erm
quite a few better players than that
and the Eagles going Morou going down with a ?
for that time
it was the man you pass the ball to
White Agwuocha
an opportunity
and it is erm Kodjo ?
sliding the ball away
it's a free kick that might take forever now for Togo to take
so that's just about erm where it's going to end I'm afraid
they have ? knowing that they are still on the top really now
and I think it's starting to ? again
well earlier on you saw the fans of Togo they can't wait for the final whistle
and there it is the action ? was brought down for
but erm free kick to Togo
fans
they've had enough
they've all decided
that erm the Eagles have lost this one and so
they can't wait
to see the final whistle
Nigeria still down
and they're right on the dot of ninety four minutes
the final segment is laid here
the Togolese Hawks are going erm
?
the Togolese Hawks are going
crazy
Samson Siasia is looking stunned
Yusuf Jaiyeola still has grace to say thank you Lord for what you have done
and erm that is the measure of the disappointment here
and the Togolese go
completely crazy here
they least expected it
Ehiosun ended up with four goals the same
as erm that Togolese player Atakora Lalawele
and Samson Siasia of course Nigeria also got four goals ?
? they really ? Togo here
and dear Togo
worthy champions indeed
they played very well
and that it is erm
finally Togo three
Nigeria two
and Togo are the Champions
