Ghanaian player there number twelve jersey his name is Sabato Mohammed from ? and of course ? showing all the ? he has as a striker one of the very best in the local league in Nigeria means we'll have ? Sabato Mohammed this could be a chance for Nigeria what exactly was erm Gege Soriola thinking giving a player as deadly as erm Nat Asamoah all that erm erm erm or erm ? a- a- all that space ? well we all didn't know that when they said there was gonna be a Ghana Nige- Nigeria affair in the second semi-final we said no matter we're gonna forget this two we're gonna forget everything that may have transpired between Nigeria and Ghana is going to be another crunchy time Amoda Usman hears that out most of ? in Nigeria own up for ? the the Nigerians start coming out very strongly on ? side ? sends a very clear message to I'm sure that is ? ? who is there for the Nigerian team and erm that erm Sabato Mohammed will have your back has that out into touch that was some very very wonderful pressure there and of course erm the the situation in Nigerians erm Nigeria is bad too they blossom too they flash too much confidence they know today that this war will not be over until it is over corner kick comes to Nigeria how well ? put down again into the defence ? by ? but erm nobody could locate was not a very brilliant one goalkeeper Adjei Daniel his ? there were not too good and from very brilliant and this is erm Usman Amoda Usman Amoda puts a very brilliant touch on some very good football that the Nigerians are playing and they are telling us let's let's go there ? rescues that for Ghana and erm this is outside positional ? fair play from our position here erm the the the the the officials are not taking any chances at all ? Baffoe reminds me of Emmanuel Baffoe erm the the very formidable central defender half German half Ghanaian for the Black Stars of Ghana at the nineteen ninety two African Nations Cup in Senegal but Baffoe Anthony Baffoe Super Eagles of Nigeria of course erm Anthony Baffoe there did go on to do Nig- do erm Ghana very proud at the two thousand and erm at the nineteen ninety two Africa Nations Cup the Nigerian striker there ? ? play some trick this man is full of trick his name is ? he will do terrible things to any goalkeeper who is not very very yeah that's him he will do terrible things to any goalkeeper who is not in his goal but lo- but look at him nobody expected him to be this and a goalkeeper who was almost beaten except except by the by the ? the Ghanaians are coming out you can see them you can count at least six Ghanaians in the attack so that actually coming ? fact is that they haven't got ? the Ghanaians the Nigerian defence will have to do a lot we will have to do a lot we will have the presence of mind and erm make sure that they are aware all of the time so that they don't give an edge to this Ghanaian strikers and that m- m- player Nats has always been standing erm shoulders with the last Nigerian defender and that is something erm Gege Soriola and erm ? will have to watch and erm really try to repower well erm ? Anthony Baffoe he actually did say how much he enjoyed the contest between the Black Stars and the Super Eagles back then well there was one game he actually s- said it is his best game in the ? of the Black Stars ? in nineteen ninety two at the ? Stadium Surelere Lagos when the Super Eagles played a one one draw with the Black Stars right then ? as a coach erm followed instructions and erm ? thing that thing that it you just have to admit that erm this boys have been working they have been working actually and they have been moving their technique earlier on in their other matches he wasn't getting it right but today he seems to have done so ? to ? and it's good to see that he is getting it right now 