judging from what has happened so far for Niger Tornadoes at Minna three matches have been highly impressive while for Sharks Football Club of Port Harcourt a player is down on the top Chimezie Ezewu is down needs attention now the play-back again he actually slipped and he's now being attended to Chimezie Nzewi of fact he's one of thirty three players Sharks is backing on for actually would be has made this match and just like I told you that's Stanley Eguma the chief coach ? sole administrator of Sharks Football Club Sharks was one Stanley Eguma as you know was one time the assistant coach under ? the national under twenty three soccer team still looking forward to more national servants around before they're justified for this special man the Sharks Football Club this year the game continues now and a good opportunity for Niger Tornadoes goalkeeper Shehu Abdullahi sporting number forty jersey on the ball all ? players ? for one  there's no time to play at all in this match good clearance ? watching tricky advantage Sharks Football Club almost had the centre just at the scoreline's ? situation three minutes about three minutes into the game ? aside very poor one goes straight to the goalkeeper the last of the matches played by four teams just like I have said Niger Tornadoes that's been an impressive outing Tornadoes' ? Jean Paul is at the ? of  ? he also ? Cup by before taking on Ghana ? counterpart and the match ended one one ? kicked down ?  for Niger Tornadoes but assistant referee ? ? observed an outside position athlete tricky Sharks Football Club Tornadoes who can control up the game now so far so good in the ? Globacom Premier League Shark- Niger Tornadoes have been very very wonderful and impressive a performance that has been encouraging as well apart from the fact that they have won twelve matches that they have played so far at home which he was also able to record and now ? win and they also have four withdraws to their advantage unlike their counterpart Sharks Football Club that is yet to win any matches away let's have that's just the perception of some ? watching this match live here at Bako Kontagora stadium this stadium was built as far back as nineteen sixty so it was North Western State and it hosted ? African winners cup as well as West African Union football matches welcoming has been a two thousand and one addition the stadium took an ?  of many national challenge ? games as well as national ? player  ? of Niger Tornadoes in nineteen seventy eight this stadium has been their traditional home ground and they have not been very badly particularly this year when Niger Tornadoes against all odds scored an enviable two points ahead of Enyimba Football Club of Aba the ball has gone out of touch cross section of Sharks Football Club technical crew led by Stanley Eguma Niger Tornadoes coordinating effectively and that was too poor the ball has gone out out of touch factoring advantage Sharks Football Club Tornadoes tip tap football they are now?  Valentine Nwabili trying to connect Abdullahi Mohammed and a good chance for Tornadoes blocked Sharks' Salisu Yusuf we talked about fourteen number nine Valentine Nwabili Tornadoes against Salisu Yusuf good chance against erm advantage Tornadoes Abdullahi Mohammed good play from this players who are so far been receiving
 good encouragement from governor Aliyu Babangida of Niger State more advantage Sharks what does he do in this state Valentine Tornadoes again at an advantage good play what can they do missed that was a golden opportunity begging for one or two passes but Niger Tornadoes combination of Abdullahi Musa Solomon James and Abdullahi Mohammed they've done effective they're coordinators and saw the ball they're now at an advantage for for Jombo John Ogu they must have felt a little bit ? in these boys in the first few minutes of play Sha- Tornadoes and back to Sharks Football Club ? good contest for captain Salisu Yusuf ? captain Valentine Nwabili so it's been to their advantage for Sharks Football Club going out there from captain of Niger Tornadoes but ball is there and a narrow miss this could be dangerous that's saved Niger Tornadoes have luck again and so they have an opportunity now to connect this is a good chance fantastic he lost it very good initiative good move and perfect combination that was almost resulting in a goal from Solomon James Abdullahi Musa and Abdullahi Mohammed but unfortunately ? out Emmanuel I- Issah almost getting the ? goalkeeper Segun Oluwaniyi from Sharks Football Club he's very familiar with this field there's no doubt about that that's the play-back of that good move from Emmanuel Issah Niger Tornadoes of course was founded in nineteen seventy six so far so good the team has won some major achievements won the ? cup? nineteen ninety nine F A Cup champions in two thousand WAFU Cup finals  two thousand ? Cup two thousand and one runs at ? and also a bronze medal in two thousand and six but the expectation of many of the soccer fans here at Bako Kontagora stadium that's the scoreline again indicating Niger Tornadoes nil Sharks football club yet to score ten minutes have gone just like I was saying the expectation of many of the soccer fans in Minna Niger State is that Niger Tornadoes bow the continent with ticket which they have seriously striving at and of course that is the cross section of the supporters club of Niger Tornadoes they have every cause to be happy they have every cause to rejoice and to sing to their satisfaction this is because Niger Tornadoes was not doing badly in the Globacom premier league however one of their players is down Abdullahi Musa of Niger Tornadoes dribbling with pains Jonathan Daniel is there to give his own support Abdullahi Musa of Niger Tornadoes let's hope we will be able to get back as the game continues now for fair play Tornadoes in control of the game captain Valentine Nwabili has a good chance now to Tornadoes can he get in that goal this shot was which Jonathan Daniel the same player that was down some few minutes ago he came back probably with more vigour and almost getting the first goal let's watch the play-back again ? tried to outwit ? of Sharks and goalkeeper Segun Oluwaniyi saved for now  again too skippy a goal-less situation foul play by Sharks and of course we're witnessing the first yellow card of this match first yellow card of this match going to Odinga Odinga three jersey and it's going to be a free kick advantage Niger Tornadoes to be taken by Jude ? Odinga Odinga confirmed and just received the first yellow card in this match Tornadoes trying to think how to connect and get the first goal of this match technical adviser John Obuh watching keenly and at present again from all department with Sharks moving now good play from Sharks from Niger Tornadoes they're taking over again by Sharks good play ? Daniel Solomon James under twenty Canada World Cup player that ball was too high there's no doubt about it captain Valentine Nwabili he's doing everything to make sure that this team gets the maximum three points at stake here they really need to combine effectively with other players as we see the play-back again foul play on Odinga Odinga which of course he has already been booked if you're just joining us you're watching Globacom premier league match between Sharks Football Club Port Harcourt and Niger Tornadoes who're at home in Minna Niger State fifteen minutes gone no goal on either side and goalkeeper Ndamusa Abubakar he's been having a field day there's no doubt about it no ball has reached his end from Sharks and all he's trying to do now is to urge Niger Tornadoes to connect more I've missed the counterparts of Niger Tornadoes but quickly check and the game continues advantage Tornadoes his jersey Abdullahi Mohammed and goalkeeper Segun Oluwaniyi goalkeeper Segun Oluwaniyi is one of the foremost goalkeepers we have in Nigeria at the moment and another chance coming to Niger Tornadoes he was pushed but the referee says play on  throw in advantage Niger Tornadoes Jonathan Daniel in ? project for Sharks finally a moment of respite coach Stanley Eguma of Sharks maybe a little bit satisfied with the first fifteen minutes of play for a team that isn't in a twelfth position to be holding on to a goal-less situation with main leaders of course is not bad in all at least for now Tornadoes forging ahead again good play captain Valentine Nwabili but he missed that I'm doing gone affair fifteen more teams now very good and impressive player justifying his inclusion in the under twenty World Cup Solomon James a header from captain Valentine Nwabili ? Tornadoes almost keeping their opponent on half field and so far so good spectators are not happy with the style of play of Tornadoes and watch this team again JUTH Football Club of Jos they were so  enterprise and then at the end of the day they won that match but it was ? this could be dangerous but he lost it very good advantage that Sharks was almost having and now the play-back again seven goals scorer in the ongoing ? missed an opportunity to increase their tally to eight the Sharks now almost capitalising on the situation on the play at the moment 