Ebonyi may not benefit from Global Funds
The Ebonyi State co-ordinator of Action Committee on AIDS 
    (EBOSACA), Augustine Nwazunku has said that 
    with the status of health facilities, the problem of the HIV/AIDS 
    would remain a mirage.
He said the state risks not benefiting from the Global Funds 
    support billed to begin next year if the condition of the health 
    facilities were not improved upon.
He made the remarks in Abakaliki the state capital to mark this 
    year’s World AIDS Day.
Nwazunku explained that one of the conditions for accessing the 
    Global Fund is that the benefiting state must met the standard of 
    its health facilities.
"Most of our health facilities, for now, are short of that 
    requirement, so we are afraid that if something significant is not 
    done to bring those health facilities to the stipulated standard, 
    we may miss out", he stated.
The co-ordinator said that though access to HIV drugs in the 
    state has improved, they still have problems of service delivery 
    especially in the areas of prevention of transmission of HIV/AIDS 
    from mother to child.
He said that the state has dropped from its 9.8 per cent 
    prevalence in 1999 to 4.4 per cent this year.
Nwazunku said that to ensure effective sensitisation of the 
    rural populace, both local action committee and the community 
    action committee had been inaugurated in the state.
He regretted that the cases of children orphaned by AIDS is on 
    the increase, pointing out that the negative effects of the virus 
    on the society is much, and there is need for collaboration of all 
    stakeholders.
The EBOSACA boss lamented that though the government was doing 
    relatively much, but'the private sector operators 
    have kept a distance'.
He praised the state government for its commitment to the war 
    against the HIV-AIDS, saying that a draft bill tailored to give 
    legal lift to the EBOSACA was already in the state house of 
    assembly, and has the blessing of the executive arm of the 
    government.
