Fayose, Ibori to stay in prison till Jan. 10, 11
Ex-Delta governor’s loyalists protest
From Godwin Isenyo,
Kaduna and Edo Ugbagwu
Former Governor of Delta State Chief James Ibori lost yesterday 
    his battle for bail at a Federal High Court sitting in Kaduna. But 
    his case is to get accelerated hearing.
He is charged with alleged corruption, money laundering and 
    other financial crimes by the Economic and Financial Crimes 
    Commission (EFCC).
In Lagos, former Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose was arraigned 
    for allegedly laundering N893,396,021.50, $100,000 and 
    £111,600. He was ordered to be remanded in prison.
The court ordered that Ibori be remanded in the prison till 
    January 11, next year when it will begin the trial proper.
The EFCC alleges that Ibori stole N9.1 billion belonging 
    to Delta State. He was arraigned on a 103-count charge to which the 
    former governor pleaded not guilty.
Also charged with the former governor are Miss Uzoamaka 
    Okoronkwo and three companies – Mer Engineering Nig. Ltd, 
    Bainonex Limited and Sagicon Nigeria Limited.
Mr Justice Mohammed Lawal Shuaibu ruled that the court denied 
    the former governor bail because there were not enough material 
    evidence for granting the application.
He said in cases of this nature, the onus of establishing the 
    argument for bail rested with the defendant, "but the defence 
    counsel did not fully discharge that responsibility.
"The issue in contention is not whether the charge must be 
    accompanied by proof of evidence. But, however, failing to do so 
    will make the court to exercise its discretion favourably in 
    granting bail," Mr Justice Shuaibu said 
    :
He went on: "But, considering the duty of the accused’s 
    counsel, applicants failed to make sufficient material for the use 
    of the court in the determination of the application, and also 
    taking into account that the guidelines for consideration of bail 
    are not water-tight, the 
    absence of proof of evidence will therefore not be a factor in 
    determining the merits or demerits of the application.
"This presupposes that the court will only be disposed to 
    other considerations before delving into the merits of the 
    application.
"Consideration is also given in the case of Abiola against 
    the Federal Republic of Nigeria (SUPRA) and the case of Musa 
    against Commissioner of Police (2004, Nigeria Weekly Law Report 
    part K79483) and it is my view that the circumstances in such cases 
    are not the same as in the instant case.
"In the instant case, the accused applicants are arraigned 
    before this court and the prosecution has applied for a trial 
    date.
"All the 103 counts of the charge in which the accused 
    applicants are charged are bailable offences; and the next germane 
    issues to consider are the materials placed before the court which 
    will determine whether or not to grant bail in favour of the 
    accused applicants.
"The learned senior counsel, Mr. Daudu, has 
    submitted that the accused applicants will surrender themselves for 
    trial which the prosecution debunked.
"Availability of the accused to stand trial has always been 
    an important factor to be considered by the court.
"In the light of the above and considering the surrounding 
    circumstances of this case, the accused applicants have not placed 
    before the court sufficient materials with which the court will 
    exercise its own noble discretion in granting bail before the 
    trial.
"The application for bail in respect of the first and 
    second accused applicants is hereby refused and in the circumstance 
    an accelerated trial is hereby granted. That’s my ruling."
At about 8:00a.m, amidst tight 
    security, the accused persons were driven into the court premises 
    in a gray metallic Peugeot Expert with Nasarawa registration 
    number, AA 698NNN.
Mr Joseph. B. Daudu 
    (SAN) urged the court to grant bail to the former governor since 
    the offence was bailable, saying that all the 103-count charges 
    were brought under the Money Laundering Act 2003 and 2004 and none 
    carried death sentence.
According to Daudu, there was no proof of evidence attached to 
    the charges to enable the judge assess the prosecution’s strength 
    of evidence. "The authorities are in favour of bail being 
    granted where there is no proof."
But, the EFCC counsel, Mr Rotimi Jacobs, said that the argument 
    adduced by the defence counsel was not enough to justify his 
    client’s bail because the manner in which Ibori was arrested was 
    yet to be told.
He argued that the commission had facts to prove that Ibori was 
    not a man to be granted bail, adding that the former governor has a 
    criminal record.
Mr Justice Shuaibu insisted that the defence counsel refused to 
    discharge his responsibility as to why his client should be granted 
    bail.
He then ordered an accelerated hearing of the case and also 
    ordered that the former governor be in the prison custody, based 
    upon the request of the defence counsel who complained of 
    non-accessibility to his client at the EFCC custody where he 
    (Ibori) was initially detained.
Daudu, who said he was satisfied with the ruling, said there was 
    nothing unusual for a judge to refuse bail.
In Lagos, Fayose pleaded not guilty to a 51-count charge of 
    financial improprieties.
Fayose, at a Federal High Court, was accused of laundering about 
    N133, 864,820 of the state’s money through two companies 
    –Biological Concepts Nigeria Limited and Avian Specialist Nigeria 
    Limited.
The funds were meant for the state’s integrated poultry project 
    scheme, the court was told.
The charge was a substitute of an earlier one filed by the 
    Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) last year.
An aide of Fayose, Goke Olatunji, and businessman Gbenga James 
    standing trial in the old charge.
Mr Justice Tijani Abubakar inquired about the whereabout of the 
    duo (Olatunji and James). EFCC lawyer Wahab Shittu said the 
    commission had dropped all the charges against them.
Shittu told the court that the new charge contains the old 
    facts.
The old charge contained Fayose’s name but when it was filed, he 
    could not be prosecuted because of his constitutional immunity.
By discharging Olatunji and James, EFCC may decide to use them 
    as prosecution witnesses against Fayose.
At about 10.15 am, Fayose, who was dressed in a white 
    check long sleeve shirt and a light brown pair of trousers held in 
    place by a white belt, was led into the dock.
While in the dock, he removed a brown baseball cap he wore and 
    remained standing as the charges were read out.
He pleaded not guilty to them all.
The judge ordered that Fayose be remanded in prison.
The prison remand was at the instance of his lawyers led by two 
    Senior Advocates, Mallam Yussuf Ali and Mr. Adebayo Oba 
    Adelodun.
But Shittu opposed the choice of prison remand.
Alli said: "I ask that the accused be remanded in prison 
    custody."
Justice Abubakar said: "This is the first time I am seeing 
    an accused person opting for prison."
He (Shittu) eventually agreed.
Mr. Justice Abubakar expressed dismay at the choice of 
    prison remand by Fayose but nevertheless granted him his wishes.
Following his not-guilty plea, Shittu had asked the court to 
    keep the accused in EFCC’s custody and requested for a trial date 
    to prove the allegations preferred against Fayose who was impeached 
    last year in controversial circumstances.
Ali made spirited efforts to make oral application for his 
    (Fayose) bail.
But Mr. Justice Abubakar advised Ali against the move and 
    told him to file a formal application for the bail.
Ali readily accepted Mr. Justice Abubakar’s suggestion 
    and the matter was adjourned till January 10.
Fayose, who criticized the overzealousness of the EFCC 
    operatives in court said:
"Give me breathing space, I am a former governor and a 
    leader in Nigeria. Give me space when I walk. Accord me maximum 
    respect as a former governor."
Fayose reminded the EFCC operatives that his present 
    circumstance was temporal. "This travail is temporary," 
    he said.
Asked to comment on the charges, Fayose declined.
"This is not the time to comment as you well know, silence 
    is golden," he said even as he acknowledged cheers from court 
    officials and others.
