Maritime pollution: NIMASA D-G, four others honoured by 
    OAU
By Bayo Akomolafe, Maritime Correspondent
THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency 
    Director-General, Dr Shamsideen Dosunmu, has been honoured by the 
    Obafemi Awolowo University for his contributions to marine 
    pollution control and sustainable development of the 
    elosystem.
Also honoured by the university are Mr Donald Duke, former 
    governor of Cross River State, Chief Philip Asiodu, president of 
    the Nigerian Conservation Foundation and former Presidential 
    Adviser on Economic Matters, Prof Ajayi Borofice, Director-General, 
    National Space Development and Research Agency and Dr Ime Ikopido, 
    former Minister in charge of Environment.
In a statement, Hajia Lani Tumaka, Head 
    , Public Relations , 
    NIMASA, said the award was given at the silver jubilee celebration 
    of the university’s Institute of Ecology and Environment 
    Studies.
Presenting the award, the Vice- Chancellor, Prof Michael 
    Faborode, said the university community was happy to see one of the 
    alumni being honoured. He acknowledged NIMASA’s support to the 
    institute and expressed the hope that the existing working 
    relationship between the two institutions would be strengthened.
Faborode enjoined NIMASA and other recipients to see the 
    recognition as a tonic to do more for the cause of a clean and 
    sustainable development of the environment.
Vice President Dr Goodluck Jonathan, in his goodwill message, 
    congratulated the institute on its silver jubilee and 
    ground- breaking 
    achievement.
The Vice Ppresident urged 
    the institute to be at the forefront of environmental teaching, 
    research and publications and play a leading role to ensure that 
    Nigeria meets the challenges of sustainable development.
He assured the institute that President Musa Yar ‘Adua’s 
    administration was ready to complement with effort of the institute 
    in Environmental Studies.
Reacting to the award, Dosunmu said: "I feel very honoured 
    to be recognised by my alma mater. It is very rare for someone to 
    pass through an institution out of thousands and be singled out 
    among the multitude for honour. I feel so honoured. What we have 
    been able to achieve so far is due to the unflinching support given 
    to us by our ministry and the co-operation of stakeholders. I want 
    to equally share this honour with members of my management team and 
    the entire staff of the agency."
The award was preceded by a lecture on "The environment, 
    tourism and good governance", by Mr Donald Duke.
The former governor aptly called Mr 
    Tourism for his achievements in the development of the environment 
    and tourism during his eight-year tenure, shared his experience in 
    the drive to transform his state into a tourist paradise.
He spoke on the interface between environment and tourism and 
    how commitment to sustainable development of the environment would 
    impact positively on tourism, which is today regarded as the 
    world’s biggest industry.
