Fake merchant navy groups seize Nigeria’s waters
By Bayo Akomolafe, Maritime Correspondent
THE Nigerian Merchant Navy under the umbrella of Nigerian 
    Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transportation Senior Staff 
    Association has raised alarm over the emergence of faceless groups 
    masquerading as merchant navy groups.
Already one of the leaders of the groups, a welder with the 
    defunct Nigerian National Shipping Line (NNSL) who posed as a 
    Commodore Benson Edema 
    has been arrested by the Nigerian Navy.
The President of the association, Captain Thomas Kemewerigha 
    said two illegal groups have been posing as merchant navy. He 
    listed them as including the Merchant Navy and Petroleum Monitoring 
    Group which is headed by Edema and the Professional Seafarers Group 
    operating at Niger Delta.
He said the association was worried over the grave security 
    implication the development would have on the the nation.
He wondered why groups like Merchant Navy and Petroleum 
    Monitoring Corp headed by a self-styled Commodore Benson Edema were 
    allowed to operate despite its attempt to alert the necessary 
    quarters until he was arrested by the Navy in Lagos few weeks 
    ago.
Another group Professional Seafarers is operating in the Niger 
    Delta extorting money from the unsuspecting public.
At a press conference, Kemewerigha said the Merchant Navy is 
    always one body in every country and that it is not a para-military 
    group but usually committed to the welfare of seamen.
"This body was first discovered in Abuja and we being the 
    custodian of the Nigerian Merchant Navy alerted the authorities but 
    no action was taken until the Navy acted. We don’t want to believe 
    that some powerful people in government are behind this group as 
    they are using government property as their secretariat. We want 
    full investigation by the police on this as the property is still 
    being opened daily in Lagos for this group to continue to operate
      Kemewerigha told 
    journalists at the association’s office in Lagos at the weekend.
Commending the effort of the Nigerian Maritime Administration 
    and Safety Agency (NIMASA) for being able to register Nigeria into 
    the white list of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), he 
    said the International Transport Federation (IMO), the world body 
    for seafarers, had enquired about the illegal groups since, 
    according to him, there could not be more than one as it will 
    jeopardise Nigeria’s membership of the world maritime 
    organisation.
Kemewerigha said the leader of the said Merchant Navy Corp is a 
    pensioner of the defunct Nigeria National Shipping Line where he 
    was disengaged as a welder and wondered how he became an officer, 
    decorating himself as a Commodore, a rank which does not exist in 
    the Merchant Navy.
Kemewerigha noted that Civil Liberty Organisation (CLO) has not 
    been properly educated on the issue before condemning the arrest 
    and detention of Benson Edema.
