Free books for Lagos State public schools
Come September this year which signals the beginning of a new 
    academic session in the country, the Lagos State Government will 
    commence the provision of free books to pupils in all its public 
    schools.
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN), who 
    announced this today, said the programme was in line with his 
    administration’s commitment to provide the opportunity for every 
    child in the State to fully realize his or her potentials.
Fashola who spoke during a courtesy visit by and interactive 
    session with members of the State’s Chapter of Children’s 
    Parliament, said government’s action was also informed by the 
    realization that Education remained the greatest weapon to fight 
    poverty.
“The greatest weapon against poverty is Education. It is through 
    education that you acquire skill. It is with your skill that you 
    can get employed”, the Governor said adding that his administration 
    was also planning to provide such other learning aids like 
    computers.
Fashola, who said the commitment to looking after children of 
    the state was total and unflinching, declared, “We see in you our 
    future. You remind us of our past and you represent for us our 
    future. We are doing it for ourselves because when we must have 
    become old and infirm, you will look after us”.
The Governor noted that the only hope of having uninterrupted 
    power, water supply, well serviced roads, adequate security, 
    efficient and effective police and armed forces was through 
    grooming a well educated and responsible new generation of leaders 
    to take over from the old.
“We want the best for our State and country. We want the best 
    that the country and state can produce to take charge of our 
    resources”, the Governor said, adding that any other option would 
    be disastrous for both the country and the State.
On the various programmes his administration has embarked upon 
    for the benefit of Lagos State children since its inception, 
    Fashola, who noted that children were variously challenged at birth 
    and while growing up, said Government has put many programmes on 
    ground to protect them.
“In the last 363 days this administration has risen up to those 
    challenges. In the area of Security, we have endeavoured to put in 
    place the best security apparatus through our police to protect 
    life and property. Those who challenge the security of our society 
    and our children are being made to face the law, not only through 
    strengthening the police but also through the courts. Our fire 
    services have been upgraded to respond effectively to emergencies 
    while in the area of poverty alleviation, we have embarked on many 
    projects to create jobs for and empower your parents to be able to 
    take care of you”, the Governor said. He added that the 
    introduction of the toll-free 767 emergency dial system was also 
    meant to enhance security through effective information to the 
    security agencies in times of emergency.
Other areas which his administration has addressed for the 
    benefit of children of the state in the last one year, Fashola 
    said, include Health where it has introduced a number of free 
    programmes such as free Malaria treatment for children, HIV/AIDS 
    awareness programmes and advocacy and Information and Communication 
    Technology (ICT) among others.
The Governor commended the parliamentarians for a successful 
    election through which the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker emerged 
    without rancour.
“I am happy that the decision was accepted by all without going 
    to the tribunal. That is the only way to sustain our democracy 
    because when a decision is taken by the majority, the others must 
    abide”.
Also commending this year’s winner of the Spelling Bee 
    Competition, Master Osunbor Daniel, the Governor promised to 
    sustain the competition and told the children 
    , “Only your dream can limit you. Your dreams can come 
    true; we will help you make them come true”.
The Governor later presented a copy of the Child’s Right Law of 
    Lagos State and laptops to the members of the Parliament.
In her remarks earlier, the Speaker, Miss Deborah Adeboyejo 
    commended the State Government for all the programmes put in place 
    for the development of young people in the State noting that 
    children could not be expected to be suddenly patriotic and 
    responsible without being exposed to an environment conducive for 
    development of such virtues.
Earlier in her introductory remarks, the Commissioner for Women 
    Development and Poverty Alleviation Mrs. Orelope Ajoke 
    Adefulire noted that the Children’s Parliament was inaugurated in 
    2003 by the Federal Government to ensure their participation in 
    policy making adding that the inauguration has enabled the 
    Parliament to lobby the National Assembly for the passage of the 
    Law on the Right of the Child.
