Tribunal gives Iwu 24 hours to reply Atiku
From Kunle Olasanmi, Abuja
In 24 hours, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) 
    Chairman Maurice Iwu must answer some questions on last year’s 
    presidential election, the tribunal said yesterday.
Prof. Iwu is to anwer 
    27 questions raised by Action Congress (AC) candidate Atiku 
    Abubakar, who is challenging the election of President Umaru 
    Yar’Adua.
The Supreme Court last Friday gave Atiku the go-ahead to ask him 
    the questions, which he says are relevant to the determination of 
    his petition .
Some ministers and governors were at the court yesterday to show 
    their support for the President –an action the Action Congress (AC) 
    condemned as a ploy to intimidate the tribunal.
The former Vice President sued Yar’Adua, INEC, the Inspector 
    General of Police and the Chief of Army Staff before the tribunal 
    over the conduct of last year’s presidential election.
He said there were irregularities in the conduct of the April 21 
    election.
Parties at the tribunal were supposed to adopt their written 
    briefs yesterday but that was altered by the judgment of the 
    Supreme Court which ordered Iwu to be interrogated by counsel to 
    Atiku, Prof Alfred Kasumu (SAN).
Atiku formulated 27 questions for the INEC Chairman.
Yesterday, Kasumu told the tribunal chairman, Justice James 
    Ogebe, that there was a Supreme Court judgment last Friday, which 
    ordered that Iwu be interrogated.
He said the INEC chairman was expected to respond to those 
    questions and also file a written address.
Counsel to INEC, Mr. Kanu Agabi (SAN), agreed with 
    Kasumu.
But Counsel to Yar’Adua, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) objected, 
    saying that Kasumu should file his written address before INEC 
    could respond.
Justice Ogebe turned to Olanipekun and said that if INEC had 
    agreed with Kasumu, there was little or nothing he (Olanipekun) 
    could do to change the position because INEC is more concerned in 
    the interrogatories.
Kasumu’s position was agreed upon.
Agabi is expected to file his response to the interrogatories 
    today and his final address tomorrow. Olanipekun is to file his 
    final address on Thursday.
When Kasumu told the court about the judgment of the apex court, 
    Agabi said the Chairman of INEC would have responded to the 
    question immediately he became aware of the judgment but could not 
    because some staff who could assist him with the information 
    concerning the questions had left their offices.
The tribunal wanted to hear the petition filed by General 
    Muhammadu Buhari, the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) presidential 
    candidate in the April, last year election, but his counsel, Chief 
    Mike Ahamba (SAN), objected , 
    saying that he would wait for the interrogatories to be answered 
    before proceeding.
Buhari is also challenging the election of Yar’Adua at the 
    tribunal.
Justice Ogebe was disappointed that parties could not address 
    the tribunal as planned.
"I am disappointed that this matter could not go on today. 
    We have agreed at the last adjourned date that parties would 
    address the court today and a date will be fixed for judgment.
"The whole world is watching what we are doing here and 
    they are also waiting for the outcome," Justice Ogebe said.
Yar’Adua’s in-law and the governor of Kebbi State, Seidu 
    Dakingari, was at the tribunal. Also in court was his counterpart 
    in Nasarawa State, Aliyu Akwe Doma,
The minister of Energy, Odenyi Ajumogobia; Prince Adetokunbo 
    Kayode (Tourism); Godwin Abe (Interior); John Odey (Information) 
    and Aja Nwachukwu (Education) were there.
Police chief Mike Okiro, one of the respondents in the petition, 
    was also present. Buhari was there.
Thousands of supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) 
    were in court to also show their solidarity to the President.
Scores of anti-riot policemen had a hectic time controlling the 
    crowd at the tribunal.
The court adjourned till February 4 for the final adoption of 
    briefs.
Last Friday, the apex court held: "Our laws demand that he 
    (Iwu) provide answers to the question and I so hold.
"Court of law cannot sacrifice justice on the altar of 
    speed. A party who demands interrogatory and is denied, is denied 
    fair hearing."
Atiku brought the interrogatories under Order 33, Rule 1 (1) and 
    Order 3, as well as Order 26, Rule 27 of the Federal High Court 
    Rules and Paragraph 17 (1) and 50 of the 1st schedule to the 
    Electoral Act, 2007.
In the motion paper signed by Kasumu, the request "to serve 
    interrogatories on Iwu in terms of the questions formulated" 
    on the order paper were expressed.
Among the questions put forward were issues relating to the 
    award of contracts for the printing of ballot papers to an unnamed 
    South African firm five days to the election even though the 
    company had earlier expressed its inability to deliver such papers 
    on schedule.
The former vice president wants the tribunal to help him 
    ascertain whether or not it was true the company in question had 
    expressed it incapability "on 
    the ground that delivery deadline was unrealistic if the ballots 
    must carry serial numbers and be in booklet form with 
    counterfoils".
He also wants Iwu to disclose the "reasons for the 
    re-award" of the contract and whether or not the company in 
    question supplied the documents for which it got the contract.
Aside from these questions, Atiku urged the tribunal to allow 
    him interrogate Iwu on whether or not he supplied Anambra, Adamawa, 
    Bauchi, Benue, Cross River, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Imo, 
    Jigawa, Katsina, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Osun 
    and Zamfara states INEC offices with the ballot papers emanating 
    from such a contract for the election.
Similarly, the former vice president wants INEC to answer 
    questions relating to contracts for the construction of voting 
    cubicles for use by voters to thumb-printing during the 
    election.
Specifically, he wanted to know whether the contract for such a 
    project was executed at all and the specific company or companies 
    that won the contracts.
Mr Rickey Tarfa (SAN), who led a team of lawyers to represent 
    Atiku before the tribunal said: "Answers to these pertinent 
    questions will help us canvass our arguments that the election was 
    flawed."
