Teachers warm up for fresh strike
NECO exams likely June 23
Teachers yesterday launched the second phase of their dispute 
    over the implementation of the Teachers Salary Scale (TSS).
The teachers, under the aegis of the Nigeria Union of Teachers 
    (NUT), gave the Federal Government a seven-day ultimatum to 
    formalise the implementation of the TSS.
They had last Wednesday embarked on a three-day warning strike 
    to press home their demand for a pay rise.
Although the Federal Government agreed to pay the TSS to 
    teachers in its employ, it directed the union to negotiate with 
    states on the payment of the new salary scheme to NUT members in 
    states’ employ.
But the union said the Federal Government should issue a 
    circular on the implementation of the salary scale.
"We have resolved to give the Federal Government another 
    seven-day period within which all reasonable measures should be 
    taken to issue the circular," the NUT said.
In a communiqué at the end of its National Executive Council 
    (NEC) meeting in Abuja, the union said it welcomed the government’s 
    announcement on the implementation of the TSS.
"However, the NEC insisted that the government’s decision 
    needed to be backed by proper administrative instruments.
"There is the need for a circular which will create the TSS 
    as a distinct and substantive package exclusively for primary and 
    secondary school teachers all over the country," it added.
The NUT said its NEC would reconvene on June 24 in Abuja, to 
    decide on the next line of action if government failed to meet the 
    demand.
The union said its demand was based on the provision of the 
    constitution which gave the Federal Government the duty to 
    prescribe a minimum wage for all states.
"The Federal Government has the exclusive right to 
    prescribe the minimum wage, special salaries for different 
    industrial groups under item 34, 2nd schedule of the exclusive 
    legislative list in the 1999 Constitution," NUT said.
