Fed Govt to stop funding rural electrification 
From John Ofikhenua, Umuahia  
THE Federal Government is to stop funding rural electrification 
    projects. 
Under the new policy, it will pass the responsibility to state 
    and local governments.
Managing Director Rural Electrification Agency (REA)
     Mr. Sam Gekpe 
    said yesterday in Umuahia that President Umar Musa Yar'Adua 
    threatened to stop funding the projects because investment in the 
    sector did not match the returns. 
Gekpe, during a courtesy visit by REA management to Abia State 
    Governor, Chief Theodore Orji, said the president had noted that 
    the projects were inconsistent and poorly managed. 
He quoted the President as saying that he would be relieved to 
    let the state and local governments take over the funding of the 
    projects. 
He said: "In recent times, there has been a controversy
    , the President is of the opinion that 
    rural electrification should cease to be the concern of the Federal 
    Government and that it should actually concern the state and local 
    governments. 
"He is actually threatening to stop funding these projects. 
    One, because of the performance they talked about in the previous 
    years and how the projects had been managed; and the second aspect 
    is the inconsistency in the method of funding this project."  
    
Gekpe, however, added that the position of the National Assembly 
    differed from Yar'Adua’s. 
The National Assembly, he said, believes that the three tiers of 
    government should collectively fund the projects. 
According to Gekpe, the alternative way to fund the projects is 
    by pooling resources under the rural electrification fund 
    arrangement. 
He said REA had proposed to raise funds locally for specific 
    projects, but stakeholders are scared due to the history of 
    management of funds in the industry. 
Under the proposed arrangement, a promoter will execute a 
    project, with an assurance that he will recoup his investment, 
    while the community where the project is located will provide the 
    land and security for the installation. 
Alternatively, a private investor could also fund 60 percent of 
    the project while state and local council contribute 20 percent 
    each of the cost. 
Gekpe said: "The land can be evaluated and converted as 
    equity and that makes the communities part-owners of the scheme and 
    when that happens, and for non-viable projects, we feel well that 
    where the private partner is not interested, the burden will be 
    borne by the state and the agency. Here we will be proposing a 
    partnership of 70 percent contribution from both the state and 
    local governments and community while REA provides 30 
    percent." 
While seeking the governor's support for the collaborative 
    funding of rural electrification projects in Abia State, Gekpe said 
    there were 46 REA projects in Abia, adding that 17 of the projects 
    had been completed. 
He advised the state government to invest in solar energy for 
    the electrification of its rural communities. 
Orji thanked REA for the 17 projects it had executed, adding 
    that since power projects are capital intensive, the cost should 
    not be borne alone by the Federal Government. 
The state, according to Orji, has engaged the service of 
    Geometric Company to provide electricity in rural and urban areas. 
    
"The company is asking the Federal Government to grant it 
    tax waiver for equipment ordered for building the turbine for the 
    project and if we are assured that Shell will keep supplying gas, 
    it will be nice since it will lessen the burden on the Federal 
    Government. 
"We are doing our best to reactivate all the rural projects 
    in Abia and we have already released 150 transformers to our rural 
    dwellers," he added. 
