Polls: Court Okays Nigerians Abroad to Vote
A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered the Independent 
    National Electoral Commission (INEC) to put in place relevant 
    machinery to assist Nigerians to register and vote from abroad in 
    any election in Nigeria without having to travel for that 
    purpose.
Delivering judgment in the suit filed by Nigerians 
    leaving abroad led by Professor 
    Bolaji Aluko, Hon. Hakeem Bello and Mr. Uzoma 
    Onyemaechi, presiding judge, Justice Adamu Bello, directed INEC to 
    approach the National Assembly by sponsoring a bill for the sake of 
    Nigerians in diaspora.
Justice Bello, however, directed that in doing so, the electoral 
    umpire could borrow a leaf from the countries that have already 
    adopted the external voting.
He predicated his judgment on the fact that the plaintiff had 
    convinced the court that they are entitled to vote and be voted 
    for, it was the constitutional responsibility of INEC to put in 
    place the “relevant machinery to assist the plaintiffs to vote from 
    abroad.”
The plaintiffs had dragged INEC and the Attorney-General of the 
    Federation and Minister of Justice to court saying that it was high 
    time Nigeria gave her citizens living abroad the opportunity to 
    register and vote from abroad in any election in Nigeria without 
    having to travel for that purpose.
They stated that they are entitled to participate in the 
    government of Nigeria by voting for candidates of their choice 
    pursuant to Article 13(1) of the African Charter on Human and 
    People’s Rights (Ratification and Enforcement Act) (Cap 10) Laws of 
    the Federation of Nigeria, 1990 
    .The plaintiffs also averred that they are qualified for 
    registration as voters by virtue of Section 13(1)(c) of the 
    Electoral Act 2006 and Sections 77(2), 117(2), 132(5) and 178(5) of 
    the 1999 Constitution .They 
    therefore demanded an order from the court directing the defendants 
    to set up registration centres and polling stations for the 
    purposes of registering eligible voters and voting in all the High 
    Commissions and Embassies abroad.
Plaintiffs' counsel, Mr. Femi Falana had submitted 
    that by the combined effect of the Article 13 of the African 
    Charter on Human and People’s Rights, Section 77 of the Nigerian 
    Constitution 1999 and Section 13 of the Electoral Act 2006, 
    Nigerians who are 18 years and above, living overseas are legally 
    qualified to vote for candidates of their choice in any election 
    conducted in Nigeria.
Falana apart from the several local and foreign authorities 
    cited, exhibited a list of member states of the United Nations 
    including 15 African countries that have recognized external voting 
    by their nationals.
Challenging the suit, the Attorney-General and INEC through 
    their counsel, Messrs Nelson Anih and Chris Erhabor, submitted that 
    the Nigerian Embassies and High Commissions cannot be used for 
    voting as they do not form part of the constituencies under which 
    elections could be held in Nigeria.
They further contended that they have not prevented Nigerians 
    living abroad from travelling home to participate in the electoral 
    process.
