Yar'Adua set to receive repentant militants
President Umaru Yar'Adua was ecstatic yesterday over a 
    reported offer by Niger Delta Vigilante Movement (NDVM) and Niger 
    Delta Patriotic Forces (NDPF) leader, Ateke Tom, to lay down his 
    arms.
"I am highly delighted by this news that one of the 
    militant leaders is prepared to accept the offer of amnesty by 
    government. In fact, I hope that all militant leaders will do the 
    same," the President said in Abuja while receiving his Sierra 
    Leonean counterpart, Ernest Bai Koroma.
But Tom, through his lawyer Ikenna Enekweizu, denied offering to 
    surrender in return for the amnesty promised by the President.
"There was never a time that my client, Ateke Tom, said he 
    was going to surrender. He never said so. What we said is that 
    Ateke Tom is ready to hand over his arms and those of his boys if 
    the conditions for amnesty, when released, are acceptable to 
    him," Enekweizu told The Nation on phone 
    yesterday.
Reiterating that the military operation in the Niger Delta is 
    aimed at ensuring peace in the region, Yar'Adua said the 
    details of the amnesty would be released this week.
"We are not fighting, we are all Nigerians and what we are 
    trying to do is to guarantee peace and security in the Niger Delta 
    just like in any other part of Nigeria, so that people can live, 
    work, carry on their normal duties without fear within the region, 
    so that the region and the state can realise their great potentials 
    for attracting foreign direct investments (FDIs) and boosting 
    economic activities.
"Let me say that I am expecting in the next few days, 
    certainly in the next few days, certainly within this week, for the 
    committee on amnesty to complete all arrangements and make public 
    (of course, I will personally make public) all the conditions, 
    procedures and mechanisms for the amnesty. The amnesty centre that 
    will be established, the procedures for granting the amnesty, 
    documentation, camping, training, rehabilitation, getting jobs, for 
    those who require education, sending them to school, all the terms 
    will be made public.
"I will welcome any leader, in fact, I make bold to say 
    that it will be a great pleasure for me to personally accept the 
    first militant leader who takes advantage of this amnesty, to 
    encourage others to do so; so that they can have confidence that we 
    are sincere, honest in granting of this amnesty. We have no other 
    interests than the interests of Nigerians to live in peace, and all 
    those Nigerians and non-Nigerians alike who live within the Niger 
    Delta states to live in peace and pursue their activities without 
    fear. So, I welcome any leader and all his members who are ready to 
    accept the offer of amnesty by government and I assure them that 
    within the week, latest early next week, the terms will be made 
    public."
In his remarks, President Bai Koroma, said his visit was meant 
    to deepen existing relationship between Nigeria and Sierra 
    Leone.
He also said that the issue of consolidating peace with the 
    Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was 
    discussed.
"I am very very delighted to be here, and we are 
    here in furtherance of deepening relationship that exists between 
    Nigeria and Sierra Leone. During my discussions with the President, 
    we discussed issues that bordered on strengthening the cordial 
    relationship that exists between the two countries. We discussed 
    issues on consolidating peace within the ECOWAS sub-region, we 
    discussed issues that will strengthen trade relations between the 
    two countries and we shared a lot of experiences amongst us that 
    will enhance the development and governance of our respective 
    countries. We in Sierra Leone always look up to Nigeria as our big 
    brother and we believe that President Yar'Adua being the 
    current president of ECOWAS, we must come to give him support and 
    hold regular consultation as expected of all of us, all of which is 
    in furtherance of strengthening cooperation within the sub-region 
    and also the ties that exist between Nigeria and Sierra 
    Leone," he said.
Enekweizu said for the amnesty conditions to be acceptable to 
    Ateke Tom, "they must embody a solution to the perennial and 
    fundamental issue of the Niger Delta question, resource control, 
    and fair treatment for Niger Delta people by the Federal 
    Government."
He added: "There must be an indication that this government 
    is truly committed to ending the Niger Delta crisis and finding an 
    amicable solution to it".
Enekweizu said he was not opposed to Yar'Adua’s comments on 
    the reported decision of Ateke Tom to surrender, adding: "I 
    have always maintained that at the end of every fight, people 
    gather at the roundtable to talk".
The Rivers State Government yesterday described as diversionary 
    Ateke Tom’s reported decision to surrender his arms.
A statement by the Acting Chief Press Secretary to Governor 
    Rotimi Amaechi, Mr Blessing Wikina, said the militant leader should 
    not be taken seriously in view of his several antics in the past 
    which led to severe consequences for his people.
"Peace cannot be achieved by proxy, it is either he is 
    committed to the process or he is not", the government said, 
    adding: "He is insincere and should not be listened 
    to".
The statement added that if Tom was serious about his commitment 
    to peace in the Niger Delta, and the Federal Government’s amnesty 
    offer, he should have come out of hiding with his loyalists and 
    guns, rather than speaking through a proxy.
"This is not the first time Ateke Tom has deceived the 
    people with the promise to contribute to the peace process in 
    Okrika and we believe that it is a ploy to re-enter Okrika to 
    unleash mayhem", the statement said.
Wikina urged the people to discountenance Tom’s claim as he had 
    not shown remorse for the self-confessed killings he masterminded 
    in the state.
The statement added: "While the Rivers State Government 
    welcomes every genuine effort at seeking the Federal Government’s 
    amnesty, we believe that such persons must show genuine and 
    remorseful commitment to the process".
