Secrecy oath: Errant INEC employees to lose pay, 
    job
The jobs of workers of the Independent National Electoral 
    Commission (INEC) who refuse to swear to an oath of secrecy may be 
    on the line, it was learnt yesterday.
INEC management, sources told The Nation in 
    Abuja, has asked the workers to take the oath or lose their jobs 
    for not doing so.
Besides, any errant worker may not get this month’s salary.
On June 1, INEC ordered the workers to take the oath after the 
    lid blew open over an alleged N250million bribe during the re-run 
    governorship election in Ekiti State.
Some INEC staff, who served as electoral officers, were said to 
    have been given the bribe to rig the election in favour of the 
    Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
The oath, which bars all the staff from either transmitting or 
    disclosing any classified matter, says no staff can release any 
    information unless he or she is permitted either by INEC or the 
    law.
But due to ripples caused by the directive and alleged 
    reluctance of some staff to take the oath, INEC management decided 
    to read the Riot Act.
An INEC senior management staff, who spoke in confidence, said: 
    "We have been told to either take the oath or lose our 
    employment by INEC. It is now a matter of intimidation.
"It has even reached a ridiculous extent that the 
    management said those who have refused to go to court for the 
    administration of the oath will not be paid salaries from June 
    ending.
"With the latest coercion, most of us have no choice than 
    to take the oath although we are not committed to it."
The source said the staff have been submitting copies of their 
    oath to the Personnel Department for placement in their files.
He added: "Going by the tough position of the management on 
    the oath, I doubt if any staff will refuse to take the oath. But 
    the truth is that most of us have resolved not to abide by 
    it."
But INEC’s Acting Director, Public Affairs, Mr Emmanuel Umenger, 
    said: "For those who work in sensitive places like the 
    Presidency, civil service, security agencies and INEC, taking the 
    oath is a normal thing.
"As far as this oath is concerned, there is no string 
    attached and the staff are not under compulsion because it is a 
    normal thing in the civil service.
"We have taken time to explain that the oath has no bearing 
    with the conduct of the re-run election in Ekiti State."
There were indications last night that INEC Chairman, Prof. Maurice Iwu, is scheming for one of the three surviving National 
    Commissioners, Mr Victor Chukwuani, to succeed him.
Besides Chukwuani, other commissioners are Phillip Umeadi 
    (jnr.) and Deji Soyebi.
Iwu is expected to leave office next year.
A top source in INEC said: "Iwu believes that the slot is 
    meant for the South-East and the zone should retain the seat.
"Out of the three commissioners, he is more comfortable 
    with Chukwuani, who is also presently the most senior. We have all 
    been seeing Chukwuani as Iwu’s anointed successor in 2010.
"In fact the INEC chairman is presently out of the country 
    on official tour of the United States (US) and Europe. But before 
    he left, he expressly stated that Chukwuani should be in 
    charge."
It was however gathered that most staff appear uncomfortable 
    with Chukwuani as the next INEC chairman.
The source added: "Left to all the staff, we want the 
    present team of commissioners to leave us in peace so that we can 
    reorganise this commission.
"We have never had it this bad in terms of polarisation, 
    double speak, and flawed electoral process. The 2007 poll attracted 
    more litigations than any other general election in the history of 
    Nigeria".
Another principal officer of INEC said: "The choice of INEC 
    chairman is the prerogative of the President after consultation 
    with the National Council of State.
"Naturally, the outgoing chairman may want to recommend any 
    reliable hand, the buck stops at the President’s table. But we are 
    in a serious state at present because we do not have a full 
    complement of commissioners.
"Ideally, INEC management ought to have been dissolved by 
    the President because it is now a four-man team, instead of a 
    13-man structure.
"We have heard of lobbying here and there for Chukwuani but 
    his major challenge is that he is inexperienced on electoral 
    matters.
"Apart from being a 1989 graduate, his main pedigree is the 
    fact that he is a former aide of the former Governor of Enugu 
    State, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani. As a politician, I don’t think 
    the President will take the risk to make him the chairman of 
    INEC.
"So, the nature of the electoral reforms of the President 
    will determine the choice of our next chairman. The crisis in INEC 
    now is certainly beyond ethnic coloration."
