CBN to banks: disclose stake in Transcorp, Virgin
From the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday came a 
    directive to all banks and discount houses: submit details of your 
    exposures including commercial papers (CPs) and Bankers Acceptances 
    to Transnational Corporation Plc (Transcorp) and Virgin Nigeria 
    Limited (VNL).
Besides, the directive contained in a June 15 circular requested 
    for "sold and bought counter-parties" in respect of both 
    companies.
The circular signed by CBN’s Acting Director, Banking 
    supervision, Dan Eke, gave the banks up till June 19 to comply with 
    the directive.
A bankers’ acceptance is created when a time draft drawn on a 
    bank, usually to finance shipment or temporary storage of goods, is 
    stamped "accepted" by the bank.
By accepting the draft, the bank makes an unconditional promise 
    to pay the holder of the draft a stated amount at a specified 
    date.
Acceptances are traded at a discount from face value on the 
    secondary market. Banker’s acceptances are similar to 
    Treasury-bills and are often used in money market funds.
Commercial Papers are unsecured, short-term debt instruments 
    issued by banks for the financing of accounts, receivable, 
    inventories and meeting short-term liabilities. Commercial paper is 
    not usually backed by any form of collateral, so only firms with 
    high-quality debt ratings will easily find buyers without having to 
    offer a substantial discount (higher cost) for the debt issue.
On June 1, the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) revoked 
    the sale of Nigerian Telecommunications (Nitel) and Mobile 
    Telecommunications (Mtel) to Transcorp. Transcorp had acquired the 
    firms for $500m in August 2006.
Transcorp’s acquisition of NITEL/Mtel stirred controversy in the 
    land.
The workers kicked against the transaction, claiming that it was 
    against the nation’s interest.
Many even perceived that Transcorp acted as a front for former 
    President Olusegun Obasanjo to buy the public utility.
Their suspicion was fuelled by Obasanjo’s 
    claudestine investment of 
    N200million in Transcorp through a blind trust.
During the period Transcorp that ran NITEL/Mtel, it neither pay 
    staff salary for 13 months nor settle pensioners’ claim.
A few weeks ago, Transcorp Managing Director/Chief Executive Tom 
    Iseghohi was arrested over what many believe is not unconnected 
    with the NITEL/Mtel crisis.
An Abuja Federal High Court has ordered that he be remanded in 
    custody.
The deal between the government and Virgin Atlantic seems to 
    have gone awry, with the planned change in the name of Virgin 
    Nigeria.
Hinting of the planned change in Lagos about 10 days ago, Virgin 
    Nigeria Managing Director Captain Dapo Olumide said since its 
    inception in 2005, the company’s staff had been undergoing training 
    with Virgin Atlantic.
"They have taught us how to work. Nigerians have acquired 
    those skills and we are going to put them to work. We have done it 
    before and we are going to do it again.
"Virgin Atlantic cannot be here forever. The longer Virgin 
    Nigeria remains under the umbrella of Virgin Atlantic, the longer 
    it will take us to chart our own identity".
"It is an interesting turning point … it is like the parent 
    is now letting the child go off on its own," an executive with 
    Virgin Nigeria, who pleaded for anonymity, told Reuters.
