Banker was killed by policeman, says Coroner
A policeman, Constable Benjamin Oyigie, killed a banker, 
    Modebayo Awosika in cold blood last October 1, a Coroner, Mr Paul 
    Ojo, held yesterday after an inquest.
Ojo said the evidence before him "clearly shows a callous, 
    unprovoked and unjustifiable shooting of a defenceless Nigerian by 
    a Nigerian police officer."
He urged the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Marvel 
    Akpoyibo, to declare Oyigie wanted and reopen investigation into 
    Awosika’s killing with a view to establishing all those involved in 
    the fatal shooting.
The late Awosika was a Relationship Manager at First Bank of 
    Nigeria Plc, Victoria Island. He was murdered at about 2:00a.m. on October 1 last year.
His Kia Optima car,with 
    Registration No. GG-529-AAA, was burnt near the Lekki Phase 
    1 Expressway roundabout, on the outskirts of Lagos.
Ojo, a Chief Magistrate, said: "I hold that the deceased 
    was shot by Benjamin Oyigie and that it was clearly a homicidal 
    shooting.
"I agree with the conclusions reached by the pathologist 
    and also from the totality of the evidence before me.
"I hold that the deceased, Modebayo Awosika, died of 
    cerebral disruption with haemorrhage arising from communicated 
    skull fracture due to gunshot injury."
He disagreed with the testimony of another police officer on 
    duty the fateful day with Oyigie, Constable Akpapa David, who said 
    the policemen suspected Awosika to be a robber because he hit their 
    patrol vehicle and sped off.
Ojo said the testimony was baseless because no shots were fired 
    from Awosika’s car, nor did they discover any arms or ammunition in 
    his vehicle after he was killed.
His words: "There is absolutely no evidence before me of 
    the offence the deceased committed except that he hit the police 
    patrol vehicle and tried to escape and that he injured the police 
    driver.
"Interestingly, the police driver that was said to be 
    injured did not appear before me. Shooting of the deceased to death 
    cannot be a proper or commensurate response to the claim of the 
    police concerning the conduct of the deceased on the day of the 
    incident.
"He never raised a weapon at the police officers. The 
    evidence before me clearly establishes that the lives of the 
    policemen on duty on the morning of October 1, 2008 were not in 
    danger."
Ojo made 13 recommendations "to generally serve as a guide 
    to prevent a repeat of such an occurrence," in line with the 
    Administration of Criminal Justice Laws of Lagos State 2007, which 
    has a provision that states: "From and after the coming into 
    operation of this law, no person shall be committed for trial on a 
    coroner’s inquisition."
He recommended that the Police Service Commission (PSC) should 
    ensure that excessive use of force by police officers is not 
    tolerated, and that officers be held accountable for their actions. 
    Those responsible for such "unjustifiable use of force", 
    he advised, must be brought to justice speedily.
He urged the National Assembly to make a law providing for 
    police accountability regarding violent crime control and law 
    enforcement, which should contain provisions ensuring regular 
    publishing and analysis of national data on the use of excessive 
    force.
Ojo admonished the police to put ensure that new entrants into 
    the force undergo psychiatry and psychology tests, and deploy a 
    computerised monitoring system designed to track officers’ 
    performances.
The magistrate added: "There should be a deliberate policy 
    of efficient firearm control in the police force. International 
    human rights standards on the use of force and firearms should be 
    fully incorporated into police codes of conduct and training.
"The police should be required to keep detailed records on 
    the use of force and to report publicly at regular intervals, 
    provide statistical data on shootings and other use of force," 
    Ojo said.
He also urged the police to introduce training programmes 
    designed to minimise and possibly eliminate the risk of unnecessary 
    force and death in common situations like vehicle pursuits and 
    "stop and search".
"The PSC should establish truly effective and independent 
    oversight bodies in the states with orders to investigate and 
    review complaints against the police, as well as broader policy 
    issues and patterns of concern and to issue detailed public 
    reports.
"The oversight bodies should consist of civilian complaint 
    review boards with authority to carry out independent 
    investigations into complaints against the police, or Ombudsman or 
    monitors to review police internal procedures and performance.
"I recommend that persons flagged down at police stop and 
    search points should stop for the police as law abiding 
    citizens," Ojo added.
