Managing Director appointed by Sasakawa Africa Association 
    to promote green revolution strategies
Dr Juliana Rwelamira from Tanzania has been appointed (1 June) 
    as Managing Director of the Sasakawa Africa Association (SAA) to 
    oversee its Africa-based operations from Addis Ababa, as it 
    re-organises to meet the challenges of a green revolution for 
    Africa.
SAA was established in 1986 to improve the productivity of 
    Africa’s resource-poor smallholder farmers by strengthening the 
    public and private delivery of agricultural extension services, in 
    partnership with the Global 2000 programme of The Carter Center in 
    Atlanta. Over this period, Sasakawa-Global 2000 (SG 2000) 
    programmes have been in operation in 14 Sub-Saharan African 
    countries and, currently, are focused on Ethiopia, Mali, Nigeria 
    and Uganda. SAA’s President, and inspirational leader, is the Nobel 
    Laureate Dr Norman E Borlaug.
An agricultural economist with over 31 years of experience in 
    agricultural and agribusiness development in Sub-Saharan Africa, 
    Juliana Rwelamira was previously a senior manager in the Marketing 
    and Economic and Research division of the National Agricultural 
    Marketing Council (NAMC), a statutory body based in Pretoria which 
    advises South Africa’s Ministry of Agriculture and its agricultural 
    industry on the marketing of agricultural products.
She also worked as a Practice Area Manager for five years in 
    Southern Africa for ECIAfrica Consulting International, an 
    agricultural and rural consulting firm with its headquarters in 
    Bethesda, USA. This included improving the nutrition of HIV/AIDS 
    sufferers in Ethiopia, leading a team for the World Bank funded 
    Malawi community-based Rural Land Development Programme, and the 
    USAID-funded Agriculture Development and Finance programme in 
    Angola.
Juliana Rwelamira’s academic career has included the University 
    of Pretoria, as a director of the Post Graduate School of 
    Agriculture and Rural Development; the University of Stellenbosch, 
    as a senior researcher at the Institute for Futures Research; and 
    the University of Swaziland as a lecturer on agricultural 
    economics.
She has been a consultant to the Food and Agricultural 
    Organisation (FAO) on socio-economic and gender analysis-related 
    issues and gender issues in Animal Traction Networks. She has 
    trained rural women leaders in Lesotho, Swaziland and South Africa 
    and, for UNICEF, advised the Basotho Rural Women in Development 
    programme, which helped to establish income generating economic 
    activities to alleviate poverty among women and children in 
    Lesotho.
She has analysed and promoted sustainable small, medium and 
    micro-enterprises for the Land and Agricultural Policy Centre in 
    South Africa, and studied post-production constraints for maize and 
    cassava among rural communities in Zambia.
“Juliana Rwelamira’s appointment has been made as we 
    launch new expanded programmes in our four focus countries on the 
    basis of a new operational strategy as well as a new organisational 
    structure,” says Masaaki Myamoto, Executive Director of SAA. “Her 
    range of experience will be invaluable as we reach out to women 
    farmers and very poor farming communities as part of this 
    strategy.”
Dr Rwelamira was educated at the University of Dar-es-Salaam 
    (Tanzania); University of Florida (USA), and gained her PhD in 
    Agricultural Economics at the University of Pretoria in South 
    Africa.
