Transformers, other power equipment rot away at PHCN’s 
    Ijede store
Despite the low level of electricity supply in the country, 
    power equipment worth billions of naira including about 745 
    transformers with capacities ranging between 200 and 300KVA, and 
    insulators as well as other accessories are rotting away at Power 
    Holding Company of Nigeria’s (PHCN’s) store at Ijede near Egbin 
    Power Station.
The Nation’s investigation reveals that similar equipment are 
    abandoned in various locations of the power utility firm, and have 
    been deteriorating over the years.
It was gathered that the transformers were originally procured 
    for the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) over five years ago 
    but owing to alleged non-conformity with due process in the 
    procurement, its usage was halted pending clarifications in the 
    transaction.
A source said: "Most of the equipment were imported years 
    back, during the offshore/onshore contracts for rural 
    electrification; but no sooner had they imported the equipment than 
    the Federal Ministry of Power placed a hurdle on the removal of the 
    materials there. The action of the Federal Ministry of Power was 
    based on the allegation that the contract process was not properly 
    managed. A committee was set up to investigate that allegation and 
    after that, a report was submitted, which was eventually 
    reviewed.
"Simultaneously, there was a presidential directive that 
    all offshore/onshore contracts should be converted to Turnkey, 
    taking into cognizance that materials are available here.
"But because of the closure of the stores, nobody had any 
    power to come and touch the materials here until now 
    ,"
But with the establishment of the Rural Electrification Agency 
    (REA) whose bill was signed into law in March 2005, and which was 
    inaugurated on the 16th of March, 2006, the Federal Government 
    decided to hand over the equipment to the agency in 2007.
Despite claims by the Rural Electrification Agency that it was 
    handling over 2,010 rural electrification projects spread across 
    the country, the equipment are still decaying at the Ijede.
The Nation’s
investigation further revealed that some of the rural projects 
    were nearing completion but fear of theft and vandalism compelled 
    them to leave the equipment where it is.
A staff of the organisof 
    ation who does not want his name mentioned, told our 
    reporter that efforts are being made to put the equipment to use. 
    His words: "We have about 745 transformers here. Some of the 
    rural electrification projects are yet to be completed hence the 
    transformers are here. They have capacities of between 200 and 300 
    KVA. The reason for not taking them to site is to avoid vandalism 
    and stealing."
When the Mr. Sam Gekpe, Managing of Rural Electrification 
    Agency, met with the members of House Committee on Power and Steel 
    during the committee’s probe of spending in the power sector 
    between 1999 and 2007, he said that the agency had not received a 
    letter from the government authorizing it to have access to the 
    equipment. "The place was actually covered with weeds. We 
    cleared the place and even applied chemical treatments to make sure 
    that the growth of weeds was actually retarded. We found some 
    equipment here that was grounded. And of course, we carried out an 
    inventory. We took stock of everything. Later, there was an 
    instruction that we should keep off the stores here by the Federal 
    Ministry of Power." The authorization was given the agency 
    later, it was gathered.
When the Minister of Power, Lanre Babalola visited the store 
    recently, the former Managing Director of PHCN, Bello Sueliman, 
    told our reporter that the management of PHCN was making moves to 
    woo the Rural Electrification Agency to loan it some of the 
    equipment. But with sack of Suleiman as PHCN chief and arrest of 
    Mr. Sam Gekpe, Managing of Rural Electrification Agency 
    alongside the Chairman of the House Committee on Power and Steel 
    Ndudi Elumelu and others over N5.2 billion power contract 
    scam, efforts to put the equipment into use have been stalled.
Rural Electrification Agency is a product Power Sector Reform 
    Act. Gekpe said that the power sector reform, which started 
    in 1999, was a concept to reposition the power sector. The reform 
    was engineered to sustain efficiency and to ensure that there is 
    cost recovery mechanism put in place in such a way as to increase 
    private investors coming into the sector to actually revitalise 
    it.
He said that given the reform and inauguration of the agency, 
    the agency was mandated to coordinate electricity for the rural 
    areas throughout the country, promote effective electricity 
    activities and establish and operate Rural Electrification Fund 
    (REF). Currently, no substantial achievement has been made by the 
    agency in over three years it came into force.
