The best is about to commence, says Fashola
The Lagos State Governor Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN) 
    yesterday assured Lagosians that the remaining phase of his 
    administration would be committed to implementing the most 
    challenging of its programmes.
The governor who said this while addressing a world press 
    conference at the Banquet Hall, Ikeja House, to celebrate its 
    administration two years in office, said that from inception the 
    government invested every minute and time in achieving the overall 
    policy, thrust of poverty alleviation, sustainable economic growth 
    as well as the sustained transformation of Lagos into Africa model 
    Mega City.
He said this objective was sustained through the innovative 
    tradition of giving an account of stewardship to the public every 
    100 days and the effective implementation of all the government 
    programmes and policies.
Explaining that an efficient transportation network is the 
    pivotal around which the economy of any modern Mega City revolves, 
    Governor Fashola stated that the successful implementation of the 
    revolutionary Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) lite system 
    transporting passengers in high capacity buses on dedicated bus 
    lanes between CMS through mile 12 to Ikorodu has been a major 
    accomplishment.
Reiterating that the government remains committed in delivering 
    of the 10-lane Lagos/Badagry Road project, the governor lamented 
    that the reason why the work has not commenced was because of 
    constraints in finance and the lack of 
    corporation by some property 
    owners along the expressway who sued the state over the proposed 
    expansion of the international route.
He therefore charged those who had made such moves to support 
    government’s initiative of expanding the route, which will serve as 
    a modern international gateway to the country.
According to him, development all over the world has always 
    enjoyed the support of the people, stressing that Lagos should not 
    be an exception if the state must move with the trend of 
    development.
He said: "The international community is supportive and 
    responsive. Concession operators have prepared their bids, we need 
    to clear the right of way and relocate people, because we cannot 
    build on air. It must stand on land.
"We have done it before when people vacated their land in 
    order for the Eko Bridge to be built. We must reach back to that 
    historic effort to find the inspiration for change once 
    more."
As a major breakthrough to addressing the transportation problem 
    in the metropolis, Fashola also disclosed that design for the 
    construction of an intra-city rail line had been completed.
He said: "Lagos remains probably the only intra-city-state 
    of her size and stature without an intra-city rail transport. As 
    your elected representatives, we are ready to make that a thing of 
    the past and make Lagos take her rightful ranking in the 
    international community.
"The designs for the 27km Blue Line from Okokomaiko to Eric 
    Moore and the 37 km Red Line from Iddo to Ijoko are ready. The 
    contract tenders have been reviewed. Only two issues stand in our 
    way - finance and people. These are the tools that we require now 
    by way of your support to break the shackle."
The governor, who responded to myriads of questions raised by 
    pressmen also talked on the need for religious leaders to start 
    paying their taxes.
According to him, there is the need religious leaders who earn 
    salaries to pay their taxes as they use the same public 
    infrastructure that were built with other tax payers’ money.
Fashola, who drew a line between religious institutions and 
    churches said, "Religious institutions will not be taxed as 
    stipulated by the law, it is not a state law, but that of the 
    Federal Government. They are exempted from tax payment. But leaders 
    of religious bodies who earn salaries will be taxed."
"It is only right and proper that since they are paid 
    salaries, they should pay taxes because they use the roads, water 
    and other public infrastructure. Again, religious organisations 
    that own properties and rent them out and make money from those 
    rental would have such fund must be taxed."
