Fed Govt urged to support Lekki Free Trade Zone
The Federal Govern-ment has been called upon to 
    support the ongoing development of the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ) 
    by providing not just the regulatory 
    frame work but to support the project financially.
LFTZ is an initiative of the Lagos State government in 
    partnership with the Chinese Consortium Company (CCC).
The Chairman of Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority 
    (NEPZA), Mallam Abbah Dabo, made this call on Wednesday in Lagos 
    after inspecting the development at the site.
Describing the project as a magnificent idea that would help 
    fast track economic development as well as create employment 
    opportunities for millions of Nigerians, Dabo said: "I am 
    amazed at this incredible thought."
He said this could only be possible because Lagos State is 
    endowed with resources as well as a focused leader committed to 
    facing and addressing challenges in the society.
According to him, "This idea is not new, it has worked in 
    other society like Japan, Germany and others and it would certainly 
    be a huge success in Lagos."
Explaining that no economy can survive without the vital support 
    of investors, the chairman, however, stressed the need for the 
    government to put in place facilities that would enable business 
    thrive.
He identified the need to make provision for stable and 
    effective power supply, which he said was one major factor 
    investors in the country were finding very challenging.
He also emphasised the need to establish a training institute in 
    the zone where workers would undergo periodic training.
He said this would help open up and diversify the revenue base 
    of the economy as well as promotion of export trade.
He said with a huge population and huge market, the country has 
    all it takes to emerge as the economic giant, adding that all that 
    it requires is the necessary support from the government as well as 
    the provision of the infrastructure that would enable businesses 
    thrive.
"The state government has done quite well and I think it 
    would be necessary for the Federal Government to be involved in 
    this laudable project."
He also canvassed for support from the private sector.
Earlier, the special Adviser to Governor Babatunde Fashola, 
    Mrs. Shola Oworu, who conducted the members of NEPZA board 
    round the facility, said that about 68 investors had indicated 
    interest in the project, while 12 had made their deposit payment. 
    The state government, he said, is in so much hurry to develop the 
    zone.
Mrs Oworu said an alternative power supply had been provided for 
    the investors while the government was working on an Independent 
    Power Supply as a permanent solution to the problem of constant 
    electricity for the zone.
She said among the industries that had indicated interest 
    include the oil and gas, textile as well as the manufacturing 
    companies.
Mrs Oworu said the zone was open to all sector while explaining 
    that the idea was to focus on skill transfer as well create 
    employment opportunities.
She said these first set of investors were Nigerians who 
    believed in what the government is doing and are ready to ensure 
    that the project does not only become a reality but an economic 
    reference point for the nation.
