Lagos to address rural transportation challenges with 
    LARUTIm
As the Lagos State Government commences the pilot scheme of its 
    tri-cycle initiative tagged Lagos State Rural Transportation 
    initiative (LARUTI), residents have expressed optimism that the 
    development would not only create employment opportunities, but 
    also address the challenges encountered by rural dwellers in the 
    transportation of goods and services to the urban centres, 
    MIRIAM NDIKANWU reports.
The Lagos State government on Tuesday, flagged off the LASRUTI 
    scheme with the distribution of 82 tri-cycles to beneficiaries.
At the commencement of the first phase, at the State Vehicle 
    Inspectorate Officer (VIO) training school Ikorodu, the state 
    Commissioner for Rural Development, Prince Lanre Balogun , said 
    that the first batch would be use to test run the scheme.
He announced Governor Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN, 
    would commission the scheme later in the year after government have 
    certified the efficiency of the scheme, through feedbacks from 
    operators. He tadded that 
    government is sowing a mustard seed through beneficiaries whom he 
    said, are expected to the new tri-cycles for further growth that 
    would improve lives as well as the nation’s economy.
"This idea to find solution to the challenges of 
    transportation for rural people was conceived so many years ago, to 
    alleviate poverty in the rural area for people who lack proper 
    transportation means."
Speaking on the criteria for participation, Balogun explained 
    that on whatever platform an interested investors want to 
    participate, he or she would make an initial deposit of N100,000, 
    plus a weekly installation ranging from N14,000 and N12,000.
The programme, he added, was designed to enable beneficiaries 
    pay back and become entrepreneurs within the shortest possible 
    period.
Explaining the duration for payment, he said the programme does 
    not have a terminal date, it is dynamic and continuous for all 
    season'
He said government have also put in place a team of engineers 
    that the beneficiaries can always called on when the need 
    arises.
He however, warned that riders should not patronise road side 
    mechanics whenever the tri-cycles break down, disclosing that 
    arrangements have been made for spare parts and service 
    personnel.
Some of the beneficiaries who spoke with the nation at the event 
    described the scheme as a laudable project.
He said that the tri-cycles which are in batches of three cost 
    N623000, N340000 while the third type is still been awaited.
He further added that the tri-cycle is meant for everybody 
    including civil servants who are living in rural areas of the state 
    as long as they are ready to keep to the necessary procedure on the 
    acquisition of the tri-cycle.
"The manner of acquisition is based on first come first 
    serve and not on selective process" he added.
Mrs. Kehinde George, a female trader from the Lagos 
    Island, who said she would drive the tri-cycle herself commended 
    the government. In her words: "This would create employment 
    opportunity for those of us that do not have job as well as assist 
    us in raising funds for the home front."
A middle-aged man named Kola. from Alimosho/ 
    Igando- Ikotun LCDA, was visibly 
    excited about the project. He commended the state government for 
    the laudable initiative.
"I feel very happy and I think that our Governor has shown 
    that he has the plight of Lagosians at heart. If I should take this 
    home today, even the people at home too will feel the impact and 
    they would be very happy," Kola told The 
    Nation.
"I am optimistic that people would patronize the 
    tri-cycles because it is better than Keke Marwa or Keke Napep. 
    There are different models and the sitting arrangement is well 
    structured than the Keke Marwa."
Akinsanya stated that the break down of the fund 
    include 8,000 for registration, 15,000 for insurance, while the 
    N600000 is the initial price without interest from the state 
    government.
