Atiku, Haruna united, ready to tackle Nyako, says 
    Elias
Former Adamawa State Commissioner for Finance, John Elias, has 
    said that the relationship between former Vice President Atiku 
    Abubakar and former Adamawa State Governor Boni Haruna is still 
    cordial.
Elias said: "as far as I am 
    concerned, the relationship between former Vice President Atiku 
    Abubakar and Boni Haruna is still cordial. What I understand in 
    their relationship is that Boni Haruna is only expressing 
    displeasure over certain things that are happening in Atiku’s 
    group. Atiku is now relating with people who were not favourably 
    disposed to his political beliefs for Nigeria, and he Atiku 
    Abubakar has given those people a kind of freedom to take crucial 
    decisions on his political future."
He added that "Haruna is one of Atiku’s core loyalists, in 
    fact the most loyal to Atiku right from 1998 till date, because 
    what he (Boni) did during the crisis between Obasanjo and Atiku, 
    nobody will ever do and I think Haruna deserves to be treated well, 
    respected and heard since he has the grassroots support."
Continuing, Elias said: "Haruna is my leader and my 
    political head, I don’t believe that the rumour about Boni leaving 
    Atiku will materialise but what I believe is that once you are with 
    somebody, there must be displeasure over certain things and there 
    is room for reconciliation."
Elias described the Murtala Nyako administration a failure. In 
    his words, "There is no comparison between our administration 
    and Nyako’s administration because Nyako’s style of leadership is 
    more sentimental towards widening the gap between the Fulani tribe 
    and the rest which means the non-Fulani are not welcome in his 
    government. The way he administers this state can’t be compared 
    with Boni’s."
He said the Nyako administration believes in spending much and 
    achieving little. "Let us take you to a particular project in 
    Jimeta, the Yola–Numan road, from the PZ roundabout Mai-dokey to 
    welcome to Yola is not more than 4km but they spend more than N3b 
    on it. So, if you are talking about a 2km road contracted at N168m 
    is the usual thing here in Adamawa. They do over invoicing and 
    contract inflation. So, this administration is just on spending 
    spree. This is not good for us," he said.
According to him, the Haruna administration, which got less from 
    the Federation Account, achieved more because of its prudence. 
    "Former Governor Boni Haruna never awarded contracts without 
    money. That is why when Boni left office, he left very little 
    liabilities, forget about what the Nyako administration is saying 
    that Boni left over N22b liabilities. It is a lie. Let them publish 
    it and show the world the facts. Boni Haruna should be praised for 
    what he did, the way he carried everybody along, and massive 
    development of Adamawa. The state secretariat today remains one of 
    the best in Nigeria, the Government House also one of the best, 
    workers salaries allowances, grants and entitlement were paid as at 
    when due; more people went back to school, even the market women. 
    He improved educational institutions in the state.
"I think with time, people will see and appreciate the Boni 
    administration as one of the best in the Nigeria ’s democracy from 
    1999 to 2007. Governor Nyako with all the huge resources at his 
    disposal has failed. There is much corruption in Adamawa State and 
    the press has seen the dirty and crude scandals in Adamawa 
    Government House under the nose of Murtala Nyako," Elias 
    said.
