Nigerians Trapped in Lagos-Ibadan Road Traffic
Former Justice of the International Court of Justice, Justice 
    Bola Ajibola, judges of the apex court and the Chairman Bi-Courtney 
    Nigeria Limited, Dr. Wale Babalakin, were among thousands of 
    prominent Nigerians who were trapped for hours in a seeming 
    immobile traffic snarl along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway 
    yesterday.
Some of the Supreme Court Justices trapped in the traffic were; 
    Justices Dahiru Mustadapher, Mahmud Mohammed, Ibrahim Mohammed, 
    Mariam Aloma Muhktar and George 
    Oguntade
The apex court judges had to cut short their presence at the 
    event much earlier to enable them return to Lagos to catch their 
    return flight toAbuja .
The jurists as well as others in their ilk were billed for the 
    collection of essays on Islamic law and jurisprudence titled 
    AL-ADL, (the just) in honour of Justice Bola Babalakin, a retired 
    judge of the Supreme Court organised by the National Association of 
    Muslim Law Students of the University of Ibadan.
Though the judges never explained the cause of the traffic 
    gridlock, THISDAY checks from travelers along the highway 
    attributed it to a heavy downpour that started in the early hours 
    of yesterday and lasted the whole day, which led to trailers 
    falling over along the highway as a result of the slippery nature 
    of the road.
The development elicited an open discussion on the deplorable 
    condition of the highway with Ajibola, lamenting that with the 
    development the culture of time consciousness which he has imbibed 
    over the years crashed.
Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN) the honoree's son, whose 
    firm won the bid to reconstruct and manage the Lagos-Ibadan 
    Expressway in a concession arrangement with the Federal Government, 
    said his company was ready to move to action whenever it received 
    the go-ahead to move to site.
Babalakin, who also described his experience in the traffic 
    gridlock as terrible, agreed that the deplorable condition of the 
    road was causing serious inconvenience for most Nigerians on daily 
    basis.
He said the accident being recorded daily on the road was 
    unfortunate due to many failed portions on the road.
He said, "I want to assure Nigerians that the difficulties 
    they are facing daily on the road will soon be a thing of the past. 
    We are only waiting for the Federal Government so that we can go 
    ahead with the project immediately.
"The earlier the agreement is signed and necessary approval 
    granted, we will put an end to the pains that the people are facing 
    on that road. The president hinted recently that the project will 
    soon start but the earlier this is done, the better for every 
    Nigerian using the road", he said.
