Buhari, Atiku Bury Presidential Ambitions
Former Head of State and Presidential Candidate of the All 
    Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in the last two general elections, 
    Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), former Vice President Atiku 
    Abubakar and former governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru 
    Bafarawa have agreed to bury their political ambitions for the 
    interest of the North.
The trio met in Kaduna on Wednesday at the residence of Buhari 
    to fine-tune talks on the formation of a new political party ahead 
    of the 2011 general elections.
A source at the meeting told THISDAY that the leaders 
    "agreed that the idea of who shall be the presidential 
    candidate of the new political structure should be reduced to the 
    barest minimum and that the utmost interest of the North should be 
    the paramount interest of the group."
"The meeting agreed that Buhari and Atiku had made mistakes 
    in the past and blamed the mistakes on the political elites that do 
    not want the unity of both leaders. The leaders on their own 
    realised their mistakes," the source said.
The meeting, which was the initiative of Atiku, took place at 
    the residence of Buhari. It was gathered that the former National 
    Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Audu Ogbe and 
    Chief Tom Ikimi had prompted Atiku to get Buhari to host the 
    meeting in deference to state protocol. They had argued, according 
    to the source that, Buhari was older than Atiku and senior, having 
    been a former Head of State.
According to THISDAY sources at the meeting, the leaders 
    discussed the 
    possisbilities of the formation of a new political party 
    where they would collapse their political structures, or fuse them 
    into an existing political structure. They also considered the idea 
    of joining the Action Congress (AC) and how to provide direction, 
    leadership and contact with the South for a new political 
    realignment.
The politicians, it was gathered, agreed to form a contact group 
    that would meet other political leaders in the South for the 
    purpose of actualising the formation of a broad-based party.
Basically, the contact group that came out of the meeting would 
    be meeting the Chief Olu Falae-led southern group on the formation 
    of a national party.
But the chances of any alliance with the ANPP was ruled out as 
    the party was seen as an extension of the Peoples Democratic Party 
    (PDP).
It was gathered that the politicians discussed how to salvage 
    the interest of the North and how to ensure a united Northern 
    Nigeria that can form a strong alternative platform by 2011.
According to THISDAY source at the meeting, Buhari, Atiku and 
    Bafawara agreed to bury their political ambitions for the sake of 
    salvaging the dwindling political interest of the north.
"They agreed that the idea of who shall be the presidential 
    candidate of the new political structure should be reduced to the 
    barest minimum and that the utmost interest of the North should be 
    the paramount interest of the group.
Apart from discussing how to ensure a united North, the meeting, 
    the source said discussed the state of the nation with special 
    references to the increasing rate of unemployment, Niger Delta 
    crisis among other burning national issues.
At the end of the meeting, Buhari, Atiku, Bafawara and others 
    agreed to meet regularly to review their strategy.
The expeced broad-based 
    party has Chief Anthony Enahoro, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, Alhaji 
    Lateef Jakande, Chief Emeka Ojukwu, Chief Olu Falae, Prof. 
    Pat Utomi, Hon. Rasheed Shitta Bey, Alhaji Lawan Kaita, 
    Chief Harry Akande, Governor Adams Oshiomhole, Mallam Sule Hamma, 
    Dr. Arthur Nwankwo and Chief Femi Falana as driving 
    forces.
