Dangote, Otedola raise N155 million for mosque
Ilorin — The N1.5Billion fund raising ceremony of the 
    Ilorin Central Jumaa't Mosque yesterday threw up the bickering 
    between two business moguls, Otunba Femi Otedola of Zenon Oil and 
    Alhaji Aliko Dangote of Dangote group.
Alhaji Dangote, the chief launcher at the ceremony had made a 
    brief appearance with a whopping donation of 5% of the needed money 
    ,N75M before he left the venue, 
    but Femi Otedola a co-launcher shortly after, shocked the entire 
    congregation with a donation of N80M, the highest, shooting 
    Dangotes by N5M.
Over N600M was realized at the fund raising ceremony.
Meanwhile, President Umaru Musa Yar Adua at the ceremony charged 
    religious faithful to use their religion to promote peace and 
    development instead of acrimony and using religion to cause 
    confusion among their 
    subjects
According to him, " 
    Islam is a religion of peace and should be strictly adhere 
    with in order to move the nation forward”.
The president who was represented at the occasion by the 
    Minister for Special Duties, Ibrahim Kazaure said that, Muslims 
    should always use their religion to foster peace and harmony as 
    this would assist the society to 
    develop .
Yar Adua stressed that the present administration is committed 
    to the sustenance of peace and development asking that all hands 
    must be on deck towards maintaining the peace in order to 
    accelerate the socio 
    economic growth of the country..
He added that the efforts of the present government to develop 
    agriculture is to boost food production to improve the social 
    well being of the populace.
The president who noted that, an idle hand is a 
    devils workshop emphasised 
    that the current effort to develop the sector has assisted the 
    government to reduce social vices among the teeming youths in the 
    country.
Also, the chairman of the occasion, the Governor of Niger state, 
    Dr. Babangida Aliyu said that, there was no doubt that the 
    mosque deserve rehabilitation and called on the people invited for 
    the launch to donate to the growth of the mosque.
Governor Bukola Saraki in his welcome address also believed that 
    the mosque was long over due for rehabilitation and appealed to the 
    people to donate to the mosque 
    .
He however assured that, all the money realized at the launch 
    would be judiciously utilized for the purpose it was meant 
    for .
