N800m consignment trapped at port over absence of cargo 
    handling equipment
Despite payment of N226 million duty on its N800 million worth 
    of iron rod consignment by B/ 
    Bird Capital with loan facility, the goods are still 
    trapped at the Josephdon terminal in Tin-Can Island port for over 
    four weeks after obtaining all relevant clearing documents.
The slow pace of cargo delivery at the terminal, Vanguard 
    gathered, was as a result of the lack of cargo handling equipment 
    which makes it difficult for importers and their agents to take 
    delivery of the goods.
Speaking with Vanguard on the issue, a representative of B/Bird 
    Capital, Mr. Emmanuel Elemamba, alleged that the service of 
    the terminal is one of the worst amongst all the private terminal 
    operators.
Elemamba noted not only are most of their forklifts not working, 
    the only two available most times run out of diesel and owners of 
    consignments are made to buy so as to take delivery of their 
    goods.
He further alleged that the only two operational forklifts are 
    rotated at 15 minutes interval at the terminal to service the 
    various consignees waiting to take delivery of their goods. He 
    pointed out that the delay witnessed at the terminal may be a 
    deliberate ploy of the management to collect extra rent from 
    consignees for staying long there.
He alleged that his company is presently losing millions of 
    naira in rents and other levies paid for the delay.
This claim was buttressed by Mr Oluwole Ayodele Onasanya, 
    Managing Director of Lateju Ventures Limited, agents to B/Bird 
    Capital. Onasanya told Vanguard that the service delivery at the 
    terminal is “epileptic” and that they do “not show any sign of 
    commitment to service delivery.”
He alleged that his company had to purchase diesel on Saturday 
    when the four drums which the management bought for operation that 
    day was exhausted.
However, Traffic Manager of Josephdon, Mr. Oluseye 
    Oshunpidan, told Vanguard that it is usual for agents to complain 
    like that because most of their boys who come to the terminal 
    behave like touts.
He said contrary to accusation that they do not have cargo 
    handling equipment, they have 20 which is far above what they are 
    expected to have according to the concession agreement. The traffic 
    manager explained that though there are about eight which have 
    punctured tyres because of the kind of consignments they are 
    lifting, about 12 are still operational.
When our correspondent went round the terminal, four forklifts 
    were seen loading consignments while 11 others were parked awaiting 
    repairs. Vanguard also met a hot argument between officials of the 
    terminal and Franic Agencies over the use of a lower ton equipment 
    in the lifting of sensitive electrical equipment imported from 
    China and belonging to Power Holding Company of Nigeria, PHCN. 
    Other agents who spoke with Vanguard also complained that the 
    terminal lacked operational cargo handling equipment.
